Loading Kindle highlights for ncoronges@gmail.com..
Found 111 books
365 Tao: Daily Meditations
42 highlights
---------------------------------
if we engage solely in the frenetic activities of our daily involvements, if we seek to impose our own schemes on the natural order, and if we allow ourselves to become absorbed in self-centered views, the surface of our waters becomes turbulent.
Location: 54702

There is no effort that we can make to still ourselves. True stillness comes naturally from moments of solitude where we allow our minds to settle.
Location: 55020

When the seedling appears, it carries with it the complete pattern for its growth, perhaps even the makings of an enormous tree. Although time and the right conditions are necessary, neither of those factors adds anything to the inherent nature of the seedling. It completely embodies its destiny. Therefore, the growth and character of the plant—and its very life—are all present at the moment of emerging.
Location: 58604

This is how we shape all the situations in our lives. We must give them rough shape and then throw them down into the center of our lives.
Location: 69894

We constantly defeat ourselves by questioning, asserting ourselves at the wrong times, or letting hatred and pride cloud our perceptions. Our alienation is self-generated. In the meantime, all of nature continues its constant flow. We need to let ourselves go, enter freely into the process of nature, and become absorbed in it. If we integrate ourselves with that process, we will find success. Then the sequence of things will be as evident as the coming of the sun and the moon, and everything will be as it should be.
Location: 71800

The heron is not in mere dumbness or sleep. It knows a lucid stillness. It stands unmoving in the flow of the water. It gazes unperturbed and is aware. When Tao brings it something that it needs, it seizes the opportunity without hesitation or deliberation. Then it goes back to its quiescence without disturbing itself or its surroundings.
Location: 73465

When life presents an opportunity, we must be ready to seize it without hesitation or inhibition. Position is useless without awareness. If we have both, we make no mistakes.
Location: 74450

In its pure state, it embodies everything. Thus, it shows nothing. Just as pure light has all colors yet shows no color, so too is all existence initially latent and without differentiation in Tao. Only when Tao enters our world does it explode into myriad things. We say that everything owes its existence to Tao. But really, these things are only refractions of the great Tao.
Location: 81957

Only when wisdom, courage, timing, and perseverance are combined can one have a sound basis for initiative.
Location: 84109

The action must be complete. It must burn clean; it cannot leave any bad ramifications or lingering traces. An act that leaves destruction, resentment, or untidiness in its wake is a poor one. Then initiative is insufficient, and Tao has not been attained.
Location: 84217

There are no morals, no guilt, no psychological problems, no ideologies to interfere with the purity of his action.
Location: 112940

It means accepting the way they work, and then finding a way to borrow their power.
Location: 114804

A storm does not happen abruptly; it takes hours, sometimes days, to develop. Travelers do not arrive suddenly; they can be seen in the distance. Knowing things in advance is possible with a high vantage point.
Location: 116463

It is a cancer of the emotions—concern gone compulsive. It eats away at body and mind.
Location: 121814

We often let thoughts, regrets, and doubts from past activities carry over into the present. This leads us to conflict. Instead of allowing this to happen, we should act without leaving consequences. This requires great thoroughness. Such completeness is challenging, but to succeed is to live perfectly. By resolving the problems of each day to our utmost satisfaction, we attain the sublime purity of a beach constantly washed by waves.
Location: 126036

That is why spiritual progress is slow: not because no one will tell us the secrets, but because we ourselves must overcome sentiment and fear before we can grasp it.
Location: 138578

Life’s terrors haunt us, attack us, leave ugly cuts. To buffer ourselves, we dwell on beauty, we collect things, we fall in love, we desperately try to make something lasting in our lives.
Location: 138927

What dies is merely the identity, the identification of a collection of parts that we called a person. Each one of us is a role, like some shaman wearing layers of robes with innumerable fetishes of meaning. Only the clothes and decoration fall. What dies is only our human meaning. There is still someone naked underneath. Once we understand who that someone is, death no longer bothers us.
Location: 141287

The more one walks in Tao, the more one is interested in self-perfection. All that matters is constant cultivation to be with Tao. This is a lonely path. There are others who follow Tao, but it is not always possible to meet them. That is why it takes someone both sensitive enough to hear the call and strong enough to walk the solitary path.
Location: 147480

The only way to counter this is to guard against worry, stress, intellectualism, scheming, and desires.
Location: 149394

In order to solve problems, it is helpful to first understand whether they are puzzle, obstacle, or entanglement. A puzzle need only be analyzed carefully: It is like unraveling a ball of yarn and requires patience more than anything else. An obstacle must be overcome: We must use force and perseverance to either destroy or move away from what is blocking us. An entanglement mires us in a maze of limitations: This most dangerous of situations requires that we use all our resources to extricate ourselves as quickly as possible.
Location: 152756

Of all the spiritual traditions, following Tao is among the least popular. Its adherents are poor and veiled with humility. In comparison, many traditions offer heaven, forgiveness, comfort, ecstasy, belonging, power, and wealth.
Location: 156798

Stick to Tao like a shadow. Wherever it goes, you go. As soon as it throws something your way, catch it by sheer reflex.
Location: 159233

no leftover consequences,
Location: 159675

Spiritual practice must be uninterrupted. We may be anxious because we see very little happening on a daily basis, but we must be patient until we can see what the accumulation of our effort yields. Self-cultivation means steady, gradual progress. To stop prematurely would be more disastrous than never having started at all.
Location: 190911

you cannot remain on your meditation cushion forever. You must go out and explore life as well. This is the investigation of the outer Tao—that aspect of Tao that flows through all existence. You must not fail to explore anything that interests you. Any skill you want to master should be learned. Any subject that arouses curiosity should be examined. Every insecurity should be overcome. Every question should be answered. If you do not do this, then you cannot freely flow with the outer Tao: Every one of your uncertainties will be an obstacle.
Location: 215916

Every resolution is inspiration petrified.
Location: 220140

Followers of Tao therefore do not emphasize enlightenment as an ultimate goal. For them, realization is a means, not an end. Their emphasis is on the act of living.
Location: 223186

Don’t wait for death to solve your difficulties. Do what you must while you are alive.
Location: 225669

Make every move count. Pick your target and hit it. Perfect concentration means Effortless flowing.
Location: 226181

All that matters is accomplishing what you envision with the greatest dispatch. Once you do, that aspect of your interest is discharged, and you can then go on to some new interest. If you do not engage in this ongoing process of action, you will never satisfy all the various aspects of the soul, and realization will never fully mature for you.
Location: 226877

Some assert that there is no end to desire, so we should undercut our ambition. But this doesn’t address the need for satisfaction. We need to have satisfaction in what we do in order to have a good sense of well-being. If we undercut our ambition, then we will never make any achievements nor satisfy our yearnings. This only leaves us with frustration, uncertainty, and timidity. Therefore, to follow Tao, we must identify our inner longings and dispatch them with a hunter’s accuracy.
Location: 227259

To increase power, increase humility.
Location: 228458

Whatever system of spirituality you practice, do it every day. If it is prayer, then pray every day. If it is meditation, then meditate every day. If it is exercise, then exercise every day. Only then will you be able to say that you are truly practicing spirituality.
Location: 230938

First, it provides you with a process and a means to maintain progress even if that particular day is not inspiring or significant.
Location: 231298

There are not two ways. There is only one. It is so vast that we can experience widely diverging aspects of it and imagine that we are in different realities. This is a misconception. We cannot outrun Tao, cannot be outside of it. It is only our viewpoints that change to the degree that we think we are in differing dimensions. In the river of Tao, we are like minnows that can never plumb the length and breadth of the water.
Location: 240862

They want to explore all the dimensions of the mind so that they may find a wholly integral mode of consciousness.
Location: 244271

Knowing god is the source of compassion in our lives. We realize that our separation from others is artificial. We are neither separate from other people nor from Tao. It is only our own egotism that leads us to define ourselves as individuals. In fact, a direct experience of god is a direct experience of the utter universality of life. If we allow it to change our way of thinking, we will understand our essential oneness with all things.
Location: 252926

you must first have learning before you can forget it.
Location: 255077

If you would be unencumbered by the weight of knowledge, then you must return to a state of deep intuitiveness.
Location: 255132

This back-and-forth movement between the source and the activity of life is the movement of all things.
Location: 257455

One should not pray or meditate with any thought of gain. Hold no expectations. Then the rewards will come.
Location: 265671

About Time: Cosmology and Culture at the Twilight of the Big Bang
39 highlights
---------------------------------
Creation myths imagine time as a straight line with a beginning point. No-creation myths imagine time either as a straight line extending infinitely in both directions or as a circle.
Location: 172988

Attempts to fit the 29.5306-day lunar cycle into the 365.2422-day solar cycle animate much of the calendar’s story.9
Location: 184879

(365.2422 ÷ 29.5306)
Location: 185129

Galileo began to investigate nature directly, developing ingenious experiments using wooden wedges, balls and water clocks that allowed
Location: 242679

ideas about the nature of motion to be tested rather than simply debated.
Location: 242815

“all number of things is actually finite for the very reason that it is a number.”65
Location: 246624

45 degrees of latitude east of Greenwich.
Location: 280197

American railroads adopted an ungainly convention. Inside the train, clocks were set according to specific major cities on a given railway line.8 That meant it could be 1:00 p.m. inside the train and 12:00 p.m. in the towns the train was passing.
Location: 336439

Under Fleming’s plan it would be 3:00 a.m. everywhere on the planet at the same time regardless of local conditions of day or night.
Location: 339260

In Einstein’s relativity all time became local time and all space became local space.
Location: 368007

There is no one length for an object and there is no one time between events.
Location: 368644

The problem, of course, is that the time we do recognize is the one our brains evolved us to see. Human bodies rarely moved faster than a few kilometers per hour before the late 1800s. Human minds never communicated with one another across globe-spanning distances using electrical signals before the late 1800s.
Location: 373658

energy transformations in an isolated system increase its entropy. Thus the disorder within the system must also increase. Since the universe as a whole is the very definition of an isolated system,
Location: 656710

everything in nature came in discrete bundles. Nature, at its root, is granular.
Location: 664552

Energy, momentum, rotation, spin—at the smallest levels, nature was not continuous but was quantized, discrete, bundled the way a beach resolves itself upon close inspection into a multitude of tiny flecks of sand.
Location: 664633

The bubbles of space-time are reality and between them is nonexistence.
Location: 665858

String theory can recover known particles and forces only if the universe has more space then we perceive, implying a cosmos with so-called extra dimensions.
Location: 671330

Stranger still, some scientists began to ask if the very existence of life might somehow play a role in selecting the nature of the cosmos we see.
Location: 716192

There are, for example, only a few ways to get atoms squeezed into a corner of the room. The atoms have to be packed in close and there is not much room between them. There are, on the other hand, a lot of ways to distribute the same atoms across the entire room.
Location: 739507

The probability that our universe began in a low-entropy state is so
Location: 742568

astonishingly unlikely that it’s almost embarrassing.
Location: 742637

“Our universe” is the key phrase that Carroll and others lean on for their solution. If our universe is one of many, then a new kind of steady-state model becomes possible in which even the arrow of time is explained. Eternal inflation’s multitude of universes gave Carroll the raw material he needed to create a time-symmetric cosmology.
Location: 743979

For someone living in that universe, the past points to the time of low disorder and the future points toward the direction of higher disorder. What Carroll is looking for is time symmetry for an entire multiverse. From a god’s-eye view, the entire web of evolving pocket universes should look the same if the movie of its global evolution ran backward or forward.
Location: 745202

The universe will empty out and eventually begin to spontaneously inflate. So in the super-far past of our universe, before our Big Bang (which is nothing special), we will find other Big Bangs for which the arrow of time is running in the opposite direction.”
Location: 748772

the entire cosmos is like a connected foam of baby universes, which are completely symmetric with respect to the multiverse’s time.
Location: 749062

The question of “before” has not just been answered, it has been overwhelmed.
Location: 750045

Each baby universe will have its own thermodynamic arrow of time. The multiverse as a whole, however, need not have a global direction of time.
Location: 751125

quantum mechanics predicts that the vacuum is anything but empty space; rather, it is a state seething with virtual particles that pop into and out of existence while never violating the rules of uncertainty.
Location: 754279

Whatever their personal religious affiliations, many physicists share the vision of a nonreligious God of sorts, and this is reflected in their holy grail—the search for the ultimate description of ultimate reality.15
Location: 760457

It is change that provides the illusion of time.
Location: 770770

“The cat that jumps is not the same cat that lands.”
Location: 772035

In their eyes, these fantastical worlds are just that—fantasies—and progress forward may demand that we reexamine our most cherished beliefs in the eternal physical laws.
Location: 794209

For Unger, these kinds of theoretical constructions are “allegories” because they are, essentially, fictions. As he points out, no one has observed another universe or an extra, hidden dimension of space.
Location: 798354

But string theory’s project of exchanging point particles for microscopic strings could not be made to work if the world was only three-dimensional. In response, string theorists “added more space,” allowing the world to include seven extra dimensions that are hidden from us. With this move, researchers built a working framework for quantum gravity in terms of vibrating strings, but the price they paid was the need to add seven invisible dimensions to reality.
Location: 799179

“this goal just continues the still older metaphysical presuppositions of religion: that the world we experience is less real than a much greater and timeless reality of eternal truths.” There is no need, say Smolin and Unger, to keep physics wedded to this kind of philosophy, especially if it forces so much fiction into the domain of science.
Location: 801621

Millennia later, humans were no longer part of nature but imagined themselves above the natural, as God supposedly had ordained. The monotheistic cultures, however, still placed human beings at the center of a multilayered cosmos of angels, stars, planets and Earth. With the birth of modern science (and its Greek emphasis on reason), we became sequentially displaced from the cosmic center. Now we are but one planet orbiting one star in one galaxy lost in a universe of galaxies so vast as to give new, visceral meanings to the infinite.
Location: 813532

The human vision of the cosmos shifted back and forth between temporal trajectories first imagined in myths: a universe created, a universe eternal, a universe of cycles.
Location: 814200

At the dawn of the 1800s, Eli Whitney took the process further with his new “American method” for the production of muskets. Whitney had standard interchangeable parts manufactured separately and then brought them together to be assembled by workers who might have no knowledge of how the parts were fashioned or how to build a musket from scratch.
Location: 821903

Does this perspective rob science of its remarkable and inspiring power? Not at all. The Universe is there and it pushes back.
Location: 852518

The Antidote: Happiness for People Who Can't Stand Positive Thinking
18 highlights
---------------------------------
Much as we like to hear positive messages about ourselves, this theory suggests, we crave even more strongly the sense of being a coherent, consistent self in the first place. Messages that conflict with that existing sense of self, therefore, are unsettling, and so we often reject them – even if they happen to be positive, and even if the source of the message is ourselves.
Location: 39097

‘There are lots of ways of being miserable,’ says a character in a short story by Edith Wharton, ‘but there’s only one way of being comfortable, and that is to stop running around after happiness.’
Location: 48218

‘One realises’, as the spiritual teacher Jiddu Krishnamurti once put it, ‘that one’s brain is constantly chattering, constantly planning, designing: what it will do, what it has done, the past impinging itself on the present. It is everlasting chattering, chattering, chattering.’
Location: 135089

Sounds and smells and tastes, after all, are just sounds and smells and tastes, but thoughts, we tend to assume, are something much more important.
Location: 138499

It is illuminating to note, here, how the daily rituals and working routines of prolific authors and artists – people who really do get a lot done – very rarely include techniques for ‘getting motivated’ or ‘feeling inspired’. Quite the opposite: they tend to emphasise the mechanics of the working process, focusing not on generating the right mood, but on accomplishing certain physical actions, regardless of mood. Anthony Trollope
Location: 150580

‘People … think that they should always like what they do, and that their lives should be trouble-free,’ Morita wrote. ‘Consequently, their mental energy is wasted by their impossible attempts to avoid feelings of displeasure or boredom.’
Location: 152384

the Formula One pit crew with which he worked, whose members were told that they would no longer be assessed on the basis of speed targets; they would be rated on style instead. Instructed to focus on acting ‘smoothly’, rather than on beating their current record time, they wound up performing faster. Then there was the story of the sales team that went from missing its targets to exceeding them – as soon as it became company policy to keep those targets a secret from the salespeople. ‘You can have a broad sense of direction without a specific goal or a precise vision of the future,’ Shapiro told me. ‘I think of it like jazz, like improvisation. It’s all about meandering with purpose.’
Location: 205995

We tend to imagine that the special skill of an entrepreneur lies in having a powerfully original idea and then fighting to turn that vision into reality. But the outlook of Sarasvathy’s interviewees rarely bore this out. Their precise endpoint was often mysterious to them, and their means of proceeding reflected this. Overwhelmingly, they scoffed at the goals-first doctrine of Locke and Latham. Almost none of them suggested creating a detailed business plan or doing comprehensive market research to hone the details of the product they were aiming to release.
Location: 207764

‘There is this complete identification with the thoughts that go through your head,’ Tolle said, his accent betraying a trace of his native Germany, when I asked him what he thought was the biggest barrier to happiness for most people. ‘It’s just a total absence of awareness, except for the thoughts that are continuously passing through your mind. It is the state of being so identified with the voices in your head’ – and at this point he emitted a tight Germanic chuckle – ‘that you think you are the voices in your head.’
Location: 233366

‘Not to be able to stop thinking is a dreadful affliction,’ Tolle writes. ‘But we don’t realise this, because almost everybody is suffering from it. So it’s considered normal.’ The sense of self that we construct from identifying with our thoughts is what Tolle calls the ‘ego’. (Different thinkers use this term in very different ways.) And by definition, living in the service of the ego can never make us happy.
Location: 237460

that real happiness might be dependent on being willing to face, and to tolerate, insecurity and vulnerability.
Location: 281387

many of the ways in which we try to feel ‘safe’ don’t ultimately make us happy.
Location: 282030

their flourishing depends on a certain degree of not being protected, of being open to experiences both negative and positive.
Location: 282666

‘To be vulnerable’, argue the psychotherapists Hal and Sidra Stone, ‘is to be without defensive armour, to be authentic and present … when we are able to feel our vulnerability, we are able to experience the full range of our reactions to the world around us.’
Location: 283208

the more you try to avoid suffering, the more you suffer, because smaller and more insignificant things begin to torture you, in proportion to your fear of being hurt.’
Location: 285205

We build castle walls to keep out the enemy, but it is the building of the walls that causes the enemy to spring into existence in the first place. It’s only because there are castle walls that there is anything to attack.
Location: 310853

It is a different kind of failure: the Great Failure, a boundless surrender. Nothing to hold on to, and nothing to lose.’
Location: 364531

‘He will never come at a truth so long as he lives,’ Keats wrote, ‘because he is always trying at it.’
Location: 431118

Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder
118 highlights
---------------------------------
The antifragile loves randomness and uncertainty, which also means—crucially—a love of errors, a certain class of errors. Antifragility has a singular property of allowing us to deal with the unknown, to do things without understanding them—and do them well. Let me be more aggressive: we are largely better at doing than we are at thinking, thanks to antifragility. I’d rather be dumb and antifragile than extremely smart and fragile, any time.
Location: 51597

nonpredictive decision making
Location: 53038

anything that has more upside than downside from random events (or certain shocks) is antifragile; the reverse is fragile.
Location: 54313

complex systems are weakened, even killed, when deprived of stressors. Much of our modern, structured, world has been harming us with top-down policies and contraptions (dubbed “Soviet-Harvard delusions” in the book) which do precisely this: an insult to the antifragility of systems. This is the tragedy
Location: 55191

Consider that Mother Nature is not just “safe.” It is aggressive in destroying and replacing, in selecting and reshuffling.
Location: 62300

I eat my own cooking.
Location: 80788

to the right the mistakes are small and benign, even reversible and quickly overcome. They are also rich in information. So a certain system of tinkering and trial and error would have the attributes of antifragility.
Location: 101099

Joseph Tainter.
Location: 118695

post-traumatic growth, the opposite of post-traumatic stress syndrome, by which people harmed by past events surpass themselves.
Location: 135616

How do you innovate? First, try to get in trouble. I mean serious, but not terminal, trouble.
Location: 136529

The excess energy released from overreaction to setbacks is what innovates!
Location: 137346

Yet in spite of the visibility of the counterevidence, and the wisdom you can pick up free of charge from the ancients (or grandmothers), moderns try today to create inventions from situations of comfort, safety, and predictability instead of accepting the notion that “necessity really is the mother of invention.”
Location: 138195

It is said that the best horses lose when they compete with slower ones, and win against better rivals.
Location: 140170

your bones will get denser when episodic stress is applied to them, a mechanism formalized under the name Wolff’s Law after an 1892 article by a German surgeon. But a dish, a car, an inanimate object will not—these may be robust but cannot be intrinsically antifragile.
Location: 171564

If you are not a washing machine or a cuckoo clock—in other words, if you are alive—something deep in your soul likes a certain measure of randomness and disorder.
Location: 194240

some parts on the inside of a system may be required to be fragile in order to make the system antifragile as a result. Or the organism itself might be fragile, but the information encoded in the genes reproducing it will be antifragile. The point is not trivial, as it is behind the logic of evolution.
Location: 201500

Consider, as a thought experiment, the situation of an immortal organism, one that is built without an expiration date. To survive, it would need to be completely fit for all possible random events that can take place in the environment, all future random events. By some nasty property, a random event is, well, random. It does not advertise its arrival ahead of time, allowing the organism to prepare and make adjustments to sustain shocks. For an immortal organism, pre-adaptation for all such events would be a necessity. When a random event happens, it is already too late to react, so the organism should be prepared to withstand the shock, or say goodbye. We saw that our bodies overshoot a bit in response to stressors, but this remains highly insufficient; they still can’t see the future. They can prepare for the next war, but not win it. Post-event adaptation, no matter how fast, would always be a bit late.1
Location: 206404

This creates a separation between good and bad systems. Good systems such as airlines are set up to have small errors, independent from each other—or, in effect, negatively correlated to each other, since mistakes lower the odds of future mistakes. This is one way to see how one environment can be antifragile (aviation) and the other fragile (modern economic life with “earth is flat” style interconnectedness).
Location: 219464

Further, my characterization of a loser is someone who, after making a mistake, doesn’t introspect, doesn’t exploit it, feels embarrassed and defensive rather than enriched with a new piece of information, and tries to explain why he made the mistake rather than moving on. These types often consider themselves the “victims” of some large plot, a bad boss, or bad weather.
Location: 223216

Where simplifications fail, causing the most damage, is when something nonlinear is simplified with the linear as a substitute. That is the most common Procrustean bed.
Location: 245387

This is the central illusion in life: that randomness is risky, that it is a bad thing—and that eliminating randomness is done by eliminating randomness. Artisans, say, taxi drivers, prostitutes (a very, very
Location: 248544

what makes the species prosper isn’t peace, but freedom.”
Location: 280886

The centralized nation-state is not exactly new in history. In fact, it existed in a nearly identical form in ancient Egypt. But this was an isolated event in history, and it did not survive there for long: the Egyptian high state started collapsing upon contact with the crazy unruly barbaric disorganized harassing invaders coming from Asia Minor with their assault chariots, literally a killer app.
Location: 281119

Some people have fallen for the naive turkey-style belief that the world is getting safer and safer, and of course they naively attribute it to the holy “state” (though bottom-up Switzerland has about the lowest rate of violence of any place on the planet). It is exactly like saying that nuclear bombs are safer because they explode less often.
Location: 285961

“Governors” are contraptions meant to control the speed of steam engines by compensating for abrupt variations. They aimed at stabilizing the engines, and they apparently did, but they paradoxically sometimes brought about capricious behavior and crashes. Light control works; close control leads to overreaction, sometimes causing the machinery to break into pieces. In a famous paper “On Governors,” published in 1867, Maxwell modeled the behavior and showed mathematically that tightly controlling the speed of engines leads to instability.
Location: 292686

When some systems are stuck in a dangerous impasse, randomness and only randomness can unlock them and set them free.
Location: 297632

For we look at casualties as losses without taking into account the second step, what happens later—unlike gardeners, who understand rather well that pruning trees strengthens them.
Location: 306574

secularization (or rather reinvention of new sacred values like flags to replace altars),
Location: 314325

Remember that you need a name for the color blue when you build a narrative, but not in action—the thinker lacking a word for “blue” is handicapped; not the doer.
Location: 315407

this idea of replacing God and the gods running future events with something even more religiously fundamentalist: the unconditional belief in the idea of scientific prediction regardless of the domain, the aim to squeeze the future into numerical reductions whether reliable or unreliable. For we have managed to transfer religious belief into gullibility for whatever can masquerade as science.
Location: 317291

The Origin of Financial Crises—
Location: 317882

the doctors who kept killing patients could not accept his facts or act on them since he “had no theory” for his observations.
Location: 322738

While we now have a word for causing harm while trying to help, we don’t have a designation for the opposite situation, that of someone who ends up helping while trying to cause harm. Just remember that attacking the antifragile will backfire. For instance, hackers make systems stronger.
Location: 328120

What should we control? As a rule, intervening to limit size (of companies, airports, or sources of pollution), concentration, and speed are beneficial in reducing Black Swan risks.
Location: 341602

Experiments show that alertness is weakened when one relinquishes control to the system (again, lack of overcompensation). Motorists need the stressors and tension coming from the feeling of danger to feed their attention and risk controls, rather than some external regulator—fewer pedestrians die jaywalking than using regulated crossings. Some libertarians use the example of Drachten, a town in the Netherlands, in which a dream experiment was conducted. All street signs were removed. The deregulation led to an increase in safety, confirming the antifragility of attention at work, how it is whetted by a sense of danger and responsibility. As a result, many German and Dutch towns have reduced the number of street signs.
Location: 342867

The true hero in the Black Swan world is someone who prevents a calamity and, naturally, because the calamity did not take place, does not get recognition—or a bonus—for it.
Location: 346927

it turned out to be a very effective strategy, not so much as a way to achieve their objectives, but rather to accommodate the fact that these objectives are moving targets. Procrastination turned out to be a way to let events take their course and give the activists the chance to change their minds before committing to irreversible policies.
Location: 348380

“Sammy the Bull,” Salvatore Gravano, who was involved in the murder of nineteen people (all competing mobsters).
Location: 355695

Obama’s mistake illustrates the illusion of local causal chains—that is, confusing catalysts for causes and assuming that one can know which catalyst will produce which effect. The final episode of the upheaval in Egypt was unpredictable for all observers, especially those involved. As such, blaming the CIA or some other intelligence agency is as injudicious as funding it to forecast such events.
Location: 375504

In the wake of the Fukushima disaster, instead of predicting failure and the probabilities of disaster, these intelligent nuclear firms are now aware that they should instead focus on exposure to failure—making the prediction or nonprediction of failure quite irrelevant. This approach leads to building small enough reactors and embedding them deep enough in the ground
Location: 387852

with enough layers of protection around them that a failure would not affect us much should it happen—costly, but still better than nothing.
Location: 388239

Winner-take-all effects are worsening:
Location: 391704

books, being robust, are immune to power outages.
Location: 393017

People are cruel and unfair in the way they confer recognition, so it is best to stay out of that game.
Location: 410074

Stoicism, seen this way, becomes pure robustness—for the attainment of a state of immunity from one’s
Location: 424447

external circumstances, good or bad, and an absence of fragility to decisions made by fate, is robustness. Random events won’t affect us either way (we are too strong to lose, and not greedy to enjoy the upside), so we stay in the middle column of the Triad.
Location: 424563

But, before that, for my last job, I wrote my resignation letter before starting the new position, locked it up in a drawer, and felt free while I was there.
Location: 429908

Indeed, growth was very modest, less than 1 percent per head, throughout the golden years surrounding the Industrial Revolution, the period that propelled Europe into domination. But as low as it was, it was robust growth—unlike the current fools’ race of states shooting for growth like teenage drivers infatuated with speed.
Location: 443405

It also means letting people experience some, not too much, stress, to wake them up a bit. But, at the same time, they need to be protected from high danger—ignore small dangers, invest your energy in protecting them from consequential harm. And only consequential harm. This can visibly be translated into social policy, health care, and many more matters.
Location: 449663

protecting the very weak and letting the strong do their job, rather than helping the middle class to consolidate its privileges, thus blocking evolution and bringing all manner of economic problems that tend to hurt the poor the most.
Location: 456324

Before the United Kingdom became a bureaucratic state, it was barbelled into adventurers (both economically and physically) and an aristocracy. The aristocracy didn’t really have a major role except to help keep some sense of caution while the adventurers roamed the planet in search of trading opportunities, or stayed home and tinkered
Location: 456595

“Make sure that the probability of the unacceptable (i.e., the risk of ruin) is nil.”
Location: 458971

This entire heritage of thinking, grounded in the sentence “An agent does not move except out of intention for an end,” is where the most pervasive human error lies, compounded by two or more centuries of the illusion of unconditional scientific understanding. This error is also the most fragilizing one.
Location: 464417

The error of thinking you know exactly where you are going and assuming that you know today what your preferences will be tomorrow has an associated one. It is the illusion of thinking that others, too, know where they are going, and that they would tell you what they want if you just asked them.
Location: 466185

America’s asset is, simply, risk taking and the use of optionality, this remarkable ability to engage in rational forms of trial and error, with no comparative shame in failing, starting again, and repeating failure.
Location: 468152

nature knows how to select: about half of all embryos undergo a spontaneous abortion—easier to do so than design the perfect baby by blueprint. Nature simply keeps what it likes if it meets its standards or does a California-style “fail early”—it has an option and uses it. Nature understands optionality effects vastly better than humans, and certainly better than Aristotle.
Location: 490802

But it took me a lifetime to figure out the second point: implementation does not necessarily proceed from invention. It, too, requires luck and circumstances. The history of medicine is littered with the strange sequence of discovery of a cure followed, much later, by the implementation—as if the two were completely separate ventures, the second harder, much harder, than the first. Just taking something to market requires struggling against a collection of naysayers, administrators, empty suits, formalists, mountains of details that invite you to drown, and one’s own discouraged mood on occasion. In other words, to identify the option (again, there is this option blindness). This is where all you need is the wisdom to realize what you have on your hands.
Location: 510158

And one needs to be rational in not making trial and error completely random. If you are looking for your misplaced wallet in your living room, in a trial and error mode, you exercise rationality by not looking in the same place twice. In many pursuits, every trial, every failure provides additional information, each more valuable than the previous one—if you know what does not work, or where the wallet is not located. With every trial one gets closer to something, assuming an environment in which one knows exactly what one is looking for. We can, from the trial that fails to deliver, figure out progressively where to go.
Location: 518185

Mathematics → Ornithological navigation and wing-flapping technologies → (ungrateful) birds fly It also happens that birds write no such papers and books, conceivably because they are just birds, so we never get their side of the story.
Location: 527993

Random Tinkering (antifragile) → Heuristics (technology) → Practice and Apprenticeship → Random Tinkering (antifragile) → Heuristics (technology) → Practice and Apprenticeship …
Location: 530735

Entrepreneurs are selected to be just doers, not thinkers, and doers do, they don’t talk, and it would be unfair, wrong, and downright insulting to measure them in the talk department. The same with artisans: the quality lies in their product, not their conversation—in
Location: 556320

Optionality is Promethean, narratives are Epimethean—one has reversible and benign mistakes, the other symbolizes the gravity and irreversibility of the consequences of opening Pandora’s box.
Location: 572437

You make forays into the future by opportunism and optionality. So far in Book IV we have seen the power of optionality as an alternative way of doing things, opportunistically, with some large edge coming from asymmetry with large benefits and benign harm. It is a way—the only way—to domesticate uncertainty,
Location: 572678

evolution is not a competition between ideas, but between humans and systems based on such ideas. An idea does not survive because it is better than the competition, but rather because the person who holds it has survived!
Location: 576589

My sadness is that we have been moving farther and farther away from grandmothers.
Location: 577014

A practicing laboratory scientist, or an engineer, can witness the real-life production of, say, pharmacological innovations or the jet engine and can thus avoid falling for epiphenomena, unless he was brainwashed prior to starting practice.
Location: 581883

No, we don’t put theories into practice. We create theories out of practice. That was our story, and it is easy to infer from it—and from similar stories—that the confusion is generalized. The theory is the child of the cure, not the opposite—ex cura theoria nascitur.
Location: 590160

Experimentation can make people much more careful than theories.
Location: 594941

a patent side effect of mathematics is making people over-optimize and cut corners, causing fragility. Just look how the new is increasingly more perishable than the old.
Location: 595266

So for now we are looking at the forward arrow and at no point, although science was at some use along the way since computer technology relies on science in most of its aspects; at no point did academic science serve in setting its direction, rather it served as a slave to chance discoveries in an opaque environment, with almost no one but college dropouts and overgrown high school students along the way. The process remained self-directed and unpredictable at every step.
Location: 602646

But the interesting constant is that when a result is initially discovered by an academic researcher, he is likely to disregard the consequences because it is not what he wanted to find—an academic has a script to follow.
Location: 618271

In the eyes of Algazel, a skeptic fideist (i.e., a skeptic with religious faith), knowledge was not in the hands of humans, but in those of God, while Adam Smith calls it the law of the market and some modern theorist presents it as self-organization. If the reader wonders why fideism is epistemologically equivalent to pure skepticism about human knowledge and embracing the hidden logics of things, just replace God with nature, fate, the Invisible, Opaque, and Inaccessible, and you mostly get the same result. The logic of things stands outside of us (in the hands of God or natural or spontaneous forces); and given that nobody these days is in direct communication with God, even in Texas, there is little difference between God and opacity. Not a single individual has a clue about the general process, and that is central.
Location: 624099

since you cannot forecast collaborations and cannot direct them, you cannot see where the world is going. All you can do is create an environment that facilitates these collaborations, and lay the foundation for prosperity.
Location: 625608

skepticism has been mostly skepticism of expert knowledge rather than skepticism about abstract entities like God, and that all the great skeptics have been largely either religious or, at least, pro-religion (that is, in favor of others being religious).
Location: 626312

Corporations are in love with the idea of the strategic plan. They need to pay to figure out where they are going. Yet there is no evidence that strategic planning works—we even seem to have evidence against it. A management scholar, William Starbuck, has published a few papers debunking the effectiveness of planning—it makes the corporation option-blind, as it gets locked into a non-opportunistic course of action.
Location: 627314

Coca-Cola began as a pharmaceutical product. Tiffany & Co., the fancy jewelry store company, started life as a stationery store. The last two examples are close, perhaps, but consider next: Raytheon, which made the first missile guidance system, was a refrigerator maker (one of the founders was no other than Vannevar Bush, who conceived the teleological linear model of science we saw earlier; go figure). Now, worse: Nokia, who used to be the top mobile phone maker, began as a paper mill (at some stage they were into rubber shoes). DuPont, now famous for Teflon nonstick cooking pans, Corian countertops, and the durable fabric Kevlar, actually started out as an explosives company. Avon, the cosmetics company, started out in door-to-door book sales. And, the strangest of all, Oneida Silversmiths was a community religious cult but for regulatory reasons they needed to use as cover a joint stock company.
Location: 628589

Formal thinkers and theorizing theorizers tend to write books; seat-of-the-pants people tend to be practitioners who are often content to get the excitement, make or lose the money, and discourse at the pub. Their experiences are often formalized by academics; indeed, history has been written by those who want you to believe that reasoning has a monopoly or near monopoly on the production of knowledge.
Location: 638374

Provided we have the right type of rigor, we need randomness, mess, adventures, uncertainty, self-discovery, near-traumatic episodes, all these things that make life worth living, compared to the structured, fake, and ineffective life of an empty-suit CEO with a preset schedule and an alarm clock.
Location: 649312

You select people on their ability to hang around, as a filter, and studious people were not good at hanging around: they needed to have a clear task.
Location: 654217

Avoidance of boredom is the only worthy mode of action. Life otherwise is not worth living.)
Location: 659312

logic excludes—by definition—nuances, and since truth resides exclusively in the nuances, it is “a useless instrument for finding Truth in the moral and political sciences.”
Location: 687134

Gray worked in an office next to Hayek and told me that Hayek was quite a dull fellow, lacking playfulness—hence optionality.
Location: 693265

an increase in the size of projects maps to poor outcomes and higher and higher costs of delays as a proportion of the total budget. But there is a nuance: it is the size per segment of the project that matters, not the entire project—some projects can be divided into pieces, not others. Bridge and tunnel projects involve monolithic planning, as these cannot be broken up into small portions; their percentage costs overruns increase markedly with size. Same with dams. For roads, built by small segments, there is no serious size effect, as the project managers incur only small errors and can adapt to them.
Location: 749143

Bottlenecks are the mothers of all squeezes.
Location: 752410

The interpretation I had in the past was that a psychological bias, the underestimation of the random structure of the world, was the cause behind such underestimation—projects take longer than planned because the estimates are too optimistic. We have evidence of such bias, called overconfidence. Decision scientists and business psychologists have theorized something called the “planning fallacy,” in which they try to explain the fact that projects take longer, rarely less time, using psychological factors.
Location: 754482

The obvious is usually missed here: the Crystal Palace project did not use computers, and the parts were built not far from the source, with a small number of businesses involved in the supply chain. Further, there were no business schools at the time to teach something called “project management” and increase overconfidence. There were no consulting firms. The agency problem (which we defined as the divergence between the interest of the agent and that of his client) was not significant. In other words, it was a much more linear economy—less complex—than today. And we have more nonlinearities—asymmetries, convexities—in today’s world.
Location: 756039

No psychologist who has discussed the “planning fallacy” has realized that, at the core, it is not essentially a psychological problem, not an issue with human errors; it is inherent to the nonlinear structure of the projects.
Location: 758128

If uncertainty were linear we would observe some projects completed extremely early (just as we would arrive sometimes very early, sometimes very late). But this is not the case.
Location: 758562

we can put these convexity effects to use in producing a risk management rule for pollution. Simply, just as with size, split your sources of pollution among many natural sources. The harm from polluting with ten different sources is smaller than the equivalent pollution from a single source.
Location: 763430

When I was in the transaction business, I used to make plenty of errors of execution. You buy one thousand units and in fact you discover the next day that you bought two thousand. If the price went up in the meantime you had a handsome profit. Otherwise you had a large loss. So these errors are in the long run neutral in effect, since they can affect you both ways. They increase the variance, but they don’t affect your business too much. There is no one-sidedness to them. And these errors can be kept under control thanks to size limits—you make a lot of small transactions, so errors remain small. And at year end, typically, the errors “wash out,” as they say.
Location: 779173

Do not cross a river if it is on average four feet deep.
Location: 783131

keeping one’s distance from an ignorant person is equivalent to keeping company with a wise man.
Location: 809308

“People think focus means saying yes to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.”
Location: 809518

Bent Flyvbjerg (of Chapter 18) showed in his Black Swan management idea that the bulk of cost overruns by corporations are simply attributable to large technology projects—implying that that’s what we need to focus on instead of talking and talking and writing complicated papers.
Location: 814651

que de choses il faut ignorer pour agir—how many things one should disregard in order to act.
Location: 816216

Why? Odds are that your imagination will be adding things to the present world. I am sorry, but I will show in this chapter that this approach is exactly backward: the way to do it rigorously, according to the notions of fragility and antifragility, is to take away from the future, reduce from it, simply, things that do not belong to the coming times. Via negativa. What is fragile will eventually break; and, luckily, we can easily tell what is fragile. Positive Black Swans are more unpredictable than negative ones.
Location: 824145

most unseasoned ideas are fragile. And, of course, someone who sells “futuristic” ideas will not make a lot of money selling the value of the past! New technology is easier to hype up.
Location: 849822

We notice what varies and changes more than what plays a large role but doesn’t change. We rely more on water than on cell phones but because water does not change and cell phones do, we are prone to thinking that cell phones play a larger role than they do. Second, because the new generations are more aggressive with technology, we notice that they try more things, but we ignore that these implementations don’t usually stick. Most “innovations” are failures, just as most books are flops, which should not discourage anyone from trying.
Location: 853046

Urban planning, incidentally, demonstrates the central property of the so-called top-down effect: top-down is usually irreversible, so mistakes tend to stick, whereas bottom-up is gradual and incremental, with creation and destruction along the way, though presumably with a positive slope.
Location: 861334

Further, things that grow in a natural way, whether cities or individual houses, have a fractal quality to them. Like everything alive, all organisms, like lungs, or trees, grow in some form of self-guided but tame randomness. What is fractal? Recall Mandelbrot’s insight in Chapter 3: “fractal” entails both jaggedness and a form of self-similarity in things (Mandelbrot preferred “self-affinity”), such as trees spreading into branches that look like small trees, and smaller and smaller branches that look like a slightly modified, but recognizable, version of the whole. These fractals induce a certain wealth of detail based on a small number of rules of repetition of nested patterns. The fractal require some jaggedness, but one that has some method to its madness. Everything in nature is fractal, jagged, and rich in detail, though with a certain pattern.
Location: 861660

I was convinced that I had been there in a previous life. Wealth of details, ironically, leads to inner peace. Yet Gaudi’s idea went nowhere, except in promoting modernism in its unnatural and naive versions: later modernistic structures are smooth and completely stripped of fractal jaggedness.
Location: 863307

The history of medicine is the story—largely documented—of the dialectic between doing and thinking—and how to make decisions under opacity.
Location: 895152

If there is something in nature you don’t understand, odds are it makes sense in a deeper way that is beyond your understanding. So there is a logic to natural things that is much superior to our own.
Location: 929408

“The harmful effects of smoking are roughly equivalent to the combined good ones of every medical intervention developed since the war.… Getting rid of smoking provides more benefit than being able to cure people of every possible type of cancer.”
Location: 961464

If true wealth consists in worriless sleeping, clear conscience, reciprocal gratitude, absence of envy, good appetite, muscle strength, physical energy, frequent laughs, no meals alone, no gym class, some physical labor (or hobby), good bowel movements, no meeting rooms, and periodic surprises, then it is largely subtractive (elimination of iatrogenics).
Location: 971466

in a large set of circumstances (marginal disease), anything that takes you away from the doctor and allows you to do nothing (hence gives nature a chance to do its work) will be beneficial.
Location: 972458

I believe in the heuristics of religion and blindly accommodate its rules (as an Orthodox Christian, I can cheat once in a while, as it is part of the game). Among other things the role of religion is to tame the iatrogenics of abundance—fasting makes you lose your sense of entitlement. But there are more subtle aspects.
Location: 974685

Le rouge et le noir
Location: 983038

This idea of the “me” as a unit can be traced to the Enlightenment. And, with it, fragility.
Location: 987417

People engaged in sacrifices, sought martyrdom, died for the group, and derived pride from doing so; they worked hard for future generations.
Location: 987731

We live to produce information, or improve on it.
Location: 988450

“hard work” for a bank or a tobacco company, diligent newspaper reading, obedience to most, but not all, traffic laws, captivity in some corporate structure, dependence on the opinion of a boss (with one’s job records filed in the personnel department), good legal compliance, reliance on stock market investments, tropical vacations, and a suburban life (under some mortgage) with a nice-looking dog and Saturday night wine tasting.
Location: 1001361

Verba volent, words fly. Never have people who talk and don’t do been more visible, and played a larger role, than in modern times. This is the product of modernism and division of tasks.
Location: 1023026

Never ask anyone for their opinion, forecast, or recommendation. Just ask them what they have—or don’t have—in their portfolio.
Location: 1030251

Let me make the point clearer: the version of “capitalism” or whatever economic system you need to have is with the minimum number of people in the left column of the Triad. Nobody realizes that the central problem of the Soviet system was that it put everyone in charge of economic life in that nasty fragilizing left column.
Location: 1061044

You certainly need an advertising apparatus to convince people that Coke brings them “happiness”—and it works.
Location: 1066228

You cannot possibly trust someone on a treadmill.
Location: 1085278

A central argument is never a summary—it is more like a generator.
Location: 1116689

The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous
29 highlights
---------------------------------
Had this power originated in him? Obviously it had not.
Location: 56078

I saw that my friend was much more than inwardly reorganized. He was on a different footing. His roots grasped a new soil.
Location: 56629

It meant destruction of self-centeredness.
Location: 60452

Yes, we had been faithful, abjectly faithful to the God of Reason.
Location: 131190

How much did these feelings, these loves, these worships, have to do with pure reason? Little or nothing, we saw at last. Were not these things the tissue out of which our lives were constructed? Did not these feelings, after all, determine the course of our existence? It was impossible to say we had no capacity for faith, or love, or worship. In one form or another we had been living by faith and little else.
Location: 131704

Each person is like an actor who wants to run the whole show;
Location: 142475

He becomes angry, indignant, self-pitying. What is his basic trouble? Is he not really a self-seeker even when trying to be kind? Is he not a victim of the delusion that he can wrest satisfaction and happiness out of this world if he only manages well?
Location: 143521

So our troubles, we think, are basically of our own making. They arise out of ourselves, and the alcoholic is an extreme example of self-will run riot, though he usually doesn’t think so. Above everything, we alcoholics must be rid of this selfishness. We must, or it kill us! God makes that possible. And there often seems no way of entirely getting rid of self without His aid.
Location: 145160

First of all, we had to quit playing God. It didn’t work. Next, we decided that hereafter in this drama of life, God was going to be our Director. He is the Principal; we are His agents. He is the Father, and we are His children. Most Good ideas are simple, and this concept was the keystone of the new and triumphant arch through which we passed to freedom.
Location: 145874

“God, I offer myself to Thee — to build with me and to do with me as Thou wilt. Relieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do Thy will. Take away my difficulties, that victory over them may bear witness to those I would help of Thy Power, Thy Love, and Thy Way of life. May I do Thy will always!”
Location: 147016

We trust infinite God rather than our finite selves. We are in the world to play the role He assigns. Just to the extent that we do as we think He would have us, and humbly rely on Him, does He enable us to match calamity with serenity.
Location: 154962

spirituality the way of weakness. Paradoxically, it is the way of strength. The verdict of the ages is that faith means courage.
Location: 155327

Instead we let Him demonstrate, through us, what He can do. We ask Him to remove our fear and direct our attention to what He would have us be. At once, we commence to outgrow fear.
Location: 155537

To the outer world he presents his stage character. This is the one he likes his fellows to see. He wants to enjoy a certain reputation, but knows in his heart he doesn’t deserve it.
Location: 162261

Once we have taken this step, withholding nothing, we are delighted. We can look the world in the eye. We can be alone at perfect peace and ease. Our fears fall from us. We begin to feel the nearness of our Creator. We may have had certain spiritual beliefs, but now we begin to have a spiritual experience.
Location: 165808

“My Creator, I am now willing that you should have all of me, good and bad. I pray that you now remove from me every single defect of character which stands in the way of my usefulness to you and my fellows. Grant me strength, as I go out from here, to do your bidding. Amen.”
Location: 167359

On awakening let us think about the twenty-four hours ahead. We consider our plans for the day. Before we begin, we ask God to direct our thinking, especially asking that it be divorced from self-pity, dishonest or self-seeking motives. Under these conditions we can employ our mental faculties with assurance, for after all God gave us brains to use. Our thought-life will be placed on a much higher plane when our thinking is cleared of wrong motives.
Location: 185654

In thinking about our day we may face indecision. We may not be able to determine which course to take. Here we ask God for inspiration, an intuitive thought or a decision. we relax and take it easy. We don’t struggle. We are often surprised how the right answers come after we have tried this for a while.
Location: 186143

We ask especially for freedom from self-will,
Location: 187133

If so, you are not dependent upon this bank or any individual in it, or any rules by which we operate, because your help comes from an ever present and all powerful Father.
Location: 570940

Your business is business with God’s work.
Location: 571383

It asked of me a power of self-will but it did not take into consideration that this self-will was already drugged with poison — that it was very sick.
Location: 638836

Intuitively I also knew that a person constrained to temperance by the domination of will is no more cured of his vice than if he were locked up in prison. I knew that somehow, some way, the mental stream, the emotions, must be purified before the right pathway could be followed.
Location: 639001

As an artist I had spent too much time communing with nature — trying to place upon canvas or paper my emotional feelings, not to know that a tremendous spiritual power was back of the universe.
Location: 639872

“Most men,” wrote Thoreau, “lead lives of quiet desperation.”
Location: 640605

These men were like lamps supplied with current from a huge spiritual dynamo and controlled by the rheostat of their souls. They burned dim, bright, or brilliant, depending upon the degree and progress of their contact. And this contact could only be maintained just so long as they obeyed that spiritual law.
Location: 642594

restlessness, anxiety, fear and insecurity.
Location: 1273438

arrested by my obsession with self, and my egocentricity had reached such proportions that adjustment to anything outside my personal control was impossible for me. I was immersed in self-pity and resentment,
Location: 1277027

“The only real freedom a human being can ever know is doing what you ought to do because you want to do it.”
Location: 1287087

Boomerang: Travels in the New Third World
5 highlights
---------------------------------
was in charge of the money, and this was the first time they’d ever seen this little man,” says McCarthy. “And then they saw him and said, Who the fuck was that??? Is that the fucking guy who is in charge of the money??? That’s when everyone panicked.”
Location: 218727

In retrospect, now that the Irish bank losses are known to be world historically huge, the decision to cover them appears not merely odd but suicidal. A handful of Irish bankers incurred debts they could never repay, of something like 100 billion euros. They may have had no idea what they were doing, but they did it all the same. Their debts were private—owed by them to investors around the world—and still the Irish people have undertaken to repay them as if they were obligations of the state.
Location: 251778

“I don’t need body fat and I don’t need hair,”
Location: 295421

This preternatural love of rules almost for their own sake punctuates German finance as it does German life.
Location: 341546

the Germans the euro isn’t just a currency. It’s a device for flushing away the past. It’s another Holocaust Memorial. The
Location: 354265

Born to Run
19 highlights
---------------------------------
When it comes to ultradistances, nothing can beat a Tarahumara runner—not a racehorse, not a
Location: 4815

And when things look worst, we run the most. Three times, America has seen distance-running skyrocket, and it’s always in the midst of a national crisis.
Location: 24138

Name your category—mind, body, or soul—and the Tarahumara were zeroing in on perfection.
Location: 32089

Way before we were scratching pictures on caves or beating rhythms on hollow trees, we were perfecting the art of combining our breath and mind and muscles into fluid self-propulsion over wild terrain.
Location: 240578

No wonder so many people hated running; if you thought it was only a means to an end—an investment in becoming faster, skinnier, richer—then why stick with it if you weren’t getting enough quo for your quid?
Location: 242047

“Think Easy, Light, Smooth, and Fast. You start with easy, because if that’s all you get, that’s not so bad. Then work on light. Make it effortless, like you don’t give a shit how high the hill is or how far you’ve got to go. When you’ve practiced that so long that you forget you’re practicing, you work on making it smooooooth. You won’t have to worry about the last one—you get those three, and you’ll be fast.” I kept my eyes on Caballo’s sandaled feet, trying
Location: 292126

the only way to truly conquer something, as every great philosopher and geneticist will tell you, is to love it.
Location: 329107

Living on the edge wasn’t about danger, he realized. It was about curiosity; audacious curiosity,
Location: 385826

Maybe she is. Whenever an art form loses its fire, when it gets weakened by intellectual inbreeding and first principles fade into stale tradition, a radical fringe eventually appears to blow it up and rebuild from the rubble.
Location: 397302

“When I’m out on a long run,” she continued, “the only thing in life that matters is finishing the run. For once, my brain isn’t going blehblehbleh all the time.
Location: 400493

“A lot of foot and knee injuries that are currently plaguing us are actually caused by people running with shoes that actually make our feet weak, cause us to over-pronate, give us knee problems. Until 1972, when the modern athletic shoe was invented by Nike, people ran in very thin-soled shoes, had strong feet, and had much lower incidence of knee injuries.”
Location: 455965

The grouchiness and temper I’d considered part of my Irish-Italian DNA had ebbed so much that my wife remarked, “Hey if this comes from ultrarunning, I’ll tie your shoes for you.” I knew aerobic exercise was a powerful antidepressant, but I hadn’t realized it could be so profoundly mood stabilizing and—I hate to use the word—meditative. If you don’t have answers to your problems after a four-hour run, you ain’t getting them.
Location: 588642

when the animal pushed off and extended its back, it wasn’t just for propulsion—it was also for respiration,”
Location: 598421

history—humans are the only running biped that’s tailless,”
Location: 607541

“It was astonishing,” Dr. Bramble explains. “Even though the horse has long legs and four of them, David had a longer stride.”
Location: 614673

all running mammals are restricted to the same cycle of take-a-step, take-a-breath.
Location: 617569

a few extra pounds of body weight make a huge difference—so much so that to maintain heat balance, a 160-pound runner would lose nearly three minutes per mile in a marathon against a one hundred-pound runner.
Location: 635720

The only way to survive was to leave something in the tank—and that’s where the brain comes in.
Location: 675381

but Scott drew strength from every running tradition. He was an archivist and an innovator, an omnivorous student who gave as much serious thought to the running lore of the Navajo, the Kalahari Bushmen, and the Marathon Monks of Mount Hiei as he did to aerobic levels, lactate thresholds, and the optimal recruitment of all three types of muscle-twitch fiber (not two, as most runners believe).
Location: 705036

Change by Design
31 highlights
---------------------------------
The project is the vehicle that carries an idea from concept to reality. Unlike many other processes we are used to—from playing the piano to paying our bills—a design project is not open-ended and ongoing. It has a
Location: 41585

“T-shaped”
Location: 52738

interdisciplinary
Location: 54049

In an interdisciplinary team there is collective ownership of ideas and everybody takes responsibility for them. teams of teams
Location: 54309

one way to achieve this is to do away with one large team in favor of many small ones.
Location: 55207

The promise of electronic collaboration should not be to create dispersed but ever-bigger teams; this tendency merely compounds the political and bureaucratic problems we are trying to solve. Rather, our goal should be to create interdependent networks of small teams as has been done by the online innovation exchange Innocentive.
Location: 56943

means as the model
Location: 57626

Platypus,
Location: 64739

Bob McKim, founder of Stanford’s product design program, or the United Kingdom’s prolific Edward de Bono, devoted much of their creative energy to mind maps, two-by-two matrices, and other visual frameworks that help explore and describe ideas in valuable ways.
Location: 153753

The Opposable Mind,
Location: 163544

prototyping generates results faster. This seems counterintuitive: surely it takes longer to build an idea than to think one?
Location: 170158

Perhaps, but only for those gifted few who are able to think the right idea the first time. Most problems worth worrying about are complex, and a series of early experiments is often the best way to decide among competing directions. The faster we make our ideas tangible, the sooner we will be able to evaluate them, refine them, and zero in on the best solution.
Location: 170344

Just as it can accelerate the pace of a project, prototyping allows the exploration of many ideas in parallel. Early prototypes should be fast, rough, and cheap. The greater the investment in an idea, the more committed one becomes to it. Overinvestment in a refined prototype has two undesirable consequences: First, a mediocre idea may go too far toward realization—or even, in the worst case, all the way. Second, the prototyping process itself creates the opportunity to discover new and better ideas at minimal cost. Product designers can use cheap and easy-to-manipulate materials: cardboard, surfboard foam, wood, and even objects and materials they find lying around—anything they can glue or tape or staple together to create a physical approximation of ideas.
Location: 171882

Anything tangible that lets us explore an idea, evaluate it, and push it forward is a prototype.
Location: 175761

Things become more complicated with services, however, and particularly with services that rely on complex social interactions.
Location: 186968

it’s almost always best for the team members to make their own prototypes and not outsource them to others.
Location: 203023

As the project moves forward, the number of prototypes will go down while the resolution of each one goes up, but the purpose remains the same: to help refine an idea and improve it.
Location: 204201

New products or services may be doomed for all sorts of reasons: uneven quality, unimaginative marketing, unreliable distribution, or unrealistic pricing.
Location: 211006

We can think of service design as equivalent to everything that goes into a great product such as a BMW. The designers and engineers go to great lengths to make sure the smell of the interior, the feel of the seats, the sound of the engine, and the look of the body all support and reinforce one another.
Location: 237220

The blueprint reveals on a single page both the general plan and the specific detail, the final objective and the practical means of implementation. Just as a product begins with an engineering blueprint and a building with an architectural blueprint, an experience blueprint provides the framework for working out the details
Location: 239847

experience blueprint
Location: 240389

terrible DOS-based operating system overwhelmed the experience. To perform the simplest operation, it was necessary to type an arcane sequence of commands that bore no relation to lived experience—in the sharpest contrast to the ingenious device, which folded in half like a notebook and disappeared into a briefcase.
Location: 253504

using—“We are designing verbs,” Moggridge kept reminding us, “not nouns.”
Location: 254695

The most challenging type of innovation—and the riskiest—is that in which both the product and the users are new.
Location: 300962

train companies in our methods of human-centered, design-based innovation: user observations, brainstorming, prototyping, storytelling, and scenario building. Over time, however, and after countless workshops conducted throughout the world, we learned that planting a cell of design-trained, innovation-minded conspirators inside a large organization is not the most effective way to proceed. Innovation needs to be coded into the DNA of a company if it is to have large-scale, long-term impact.
Location: 315690

Nike, for instance, has mobilized its internal design teams to help them not just to provide equipment to athletes but to learn about their behaviors. This has in turn led to some significant product innovations. Since 2006 Nike’s customers have tracked more than 100 million miles using a simple device that sits inside their running shoes and
Location: 406087

Design thinking starts with divergence, the deliberate attempt to expand the range of options rather than narrow them.
Location: 421310

Time to first prototype is a good measure of the vitality of an innovation culture. How rapidly are ideas made tangible so that they can be tested and improved? Leaders should encourage experimentation and accept that there is nothing wrong with failure as long as it happens early and becomes a source of learning. A vibrant design-thinking culture will encourage prototyping—quick, cheap, and dirty—as part of the creative process and not just as a way of validating finished ideas. A promising prototype will generate a buzz among members of the design team, who will become enthusiastic advocates as it becomes a candidate for funding and support. The real test of a prototype, however, is not internal but out in the world, where it can be experienced by the farmers, schoolchildren, business travelers, or surgeons who are its intended users. Prototypes need to be testable, but they do not need to be physical. Storyboards, scenarios, movies, and even improvised acting can produce highly successful prototypes—the more the better.
Location: 424359

Challenge your organization to think about how it can spend more time doing collaborative, generative work that will produce a tangible outcome at the end of the day—not having more meetings.
Location: 428268

Building on the ideas of others is a whole lot easier when the building is happening in real time
Location: 428646

The trick is to accept that milestones cannot be predicted with certainty and that projects acquire an inner life of their own. Budgeting guidelines must be expected to change many times over. The key to agile budgeting is a review process that relies upon the judgment of senior leadership rather than some kind of algorithmic process mechanically applied. That’s how venture capital funds operate, and successful venture capitalists are nothing if not nimble.
Location: 431651

A Clash of Kings: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Two
4 highlights
---------------------------------
wyvern,
Location: 14322

“A man agrees with god as a raindrop with the storm.”
Location: 427320

By spell Tyrion imagined Hallyne meant clever trick.
Location: 729558

“Or so he’d have you believe. You think you’re the only one he whispers secrets to? He gives each of us just enough to convince us that we’d be helpless without him.
Location: 1793296

Columbus: The Four Voyages, 1492-1504
1 highlights
---------------------------------
Museo Naval
Location: 332402

Critical Chain: A Business Novel
6 highlights
---------------------------------
"Every foreman will say that if everything is ready for him, and that's a big if, then he won't have much difficulty finishing his share on time. They don't talk in terms of probabilities, but they mean over ninety percent." Now that everybody understands what they were
Location: 212139

You see, we trimmed the times to the extent that people are not sure anymore that they can finish the step on time. They don't dare procrastinate.
Location: 295264

I understood why we should trim the time estimate from a ninety percent chance of completing ontime to only a fifty percent chance, but only now do I see the full ramifications.
Location: 296343

"It is surprising, but unfortunately this is the case everywhere. Most people involved in a project don't explicitly recognize the penalties
Location: 320806

associated with each month that the project is delayed."
Location: 320952

"I could have told you, like some of our competitors might, that we could deliver in five weeks. But we have a reputation to protect. Roger can tell you how reliable we are."
Location: 329349

Deep Meditation - Pathway to Personal Freedom (AYP Enlightenment Series)
4 highlights
---------------------------------
Typically, the way we will find ourselves off the mantra will be in a stream of other thoughts. This is normal. The mind is a thought machine, remember? Making thoughts is what it does. But, if we are meditating, as soon as we realize we are off into a stream of thoughts, no matter how mundane or profound, we just easily go back to the mantra. Like that. We don’t make a struggle of it. The idea is not that we have to be on the mantra all the time. That is not the objective. The objective is to easily go back to it when we realize we are off it. We just favor the mantra with our attention when we notice we are not thinking it. If we are back into a stream of other thoughts five seconds later, we don’t try and force the thoughts out. Thoughts are a normal part of the deep meditation process. We just ease back to the mantra again. We favor it.
Location: 17725

each time we “lose” the mantra, we have gone through a natural shift in our attention. During that shift, there is a space, or gap, between thinking the mantra and then finding ourselves in a stream of thoughts. In that space, we have touched our inner silence, our pure awareness, our inner self.
Location: 25046

This cycle of thinking the mantra, losing it, and coming out into a stream of thoughts is a process of purification in the mind and nervous system.
Location: 25575

It is common for a family member or friend to comment, “What is going on? You are much less edgy lately. You haven’t lost your temper in weeks.”
Location: 31539

Do More Faster: TechStars Lessons to Accelerate Your Startup
8 highlights
---------------------------------
Because entrepreneurs who behave this way clearly overvalue ideas and therefore, almost by definition, undervalue execution.
Location: 38086

Put in another light: there is no market for ideas. Think about it for a second: have you tried selling an idea lately? Where would you go to sell it? Who would buy it? When there is no market, it is usually a very sure sign that there is no value.1
Location: 39732

mistakes can often be corrected, but time lost postponing a decision is lost forever.
Location: 40414

Usage is like oxygen for ideas. You can never fully anticipate how an audience is going to react to something you've created until it's out there. That means every moment you're working on something without it being in the public arena, it's actually dying, deprived of the oxygen of the real world.
Location: 70423

In a rapid iteration environment, the most important thing isn't necessarily how perfect code is when you send it out, but how quickly you can revert.
Location: 72724

“Real artists ship.”—Steve Jobs, 1983
Location: 73234

Instead of just assuming that we knew what our users were doing, we figured it out by carefully monitoring our logs and studying our analytics. Rather than tell our users they couldn't do certain things, we stepped back and decided that if this is what they love to do with our service, we should make it even easier for them to do it. That's when we started Photobucket.
Location: 81438

Execution doesn't mean blindly going from point A to point B without collecting an enormous amount of data from many different sources along the way. Great entrepreneurs know how to synthesize these data, make a decision about the path they are going down, and execute.
Location: 229371

Essential Scrum: A Practical Guide to the Most Popular Agile Process (Addison-Wesley Signature Series (Cohn))
21 highlights
---------------------------------
Each day during sprint execution, the team members help manage the flow of work by conducting a synchronization, inspection, and adaptive planning activity known as the daily scrum.
Location: 201952

In Scrum, we refer to the sprint results as a potentially shippable product increment (see Figure 2.12), meaning that whatever the Scrum team agreed to do is really done according to its agreed-upon definition of done. This definition specifies the degree of confidence that the work completed is of good quality and is potentially shippable. For example, when developing software, a bare-minimum definition of done should yield a complete slice of product functionality that is designed, built, integrated, tested, and documented.
Location: 218607

an appropriate definition of done might be a slice of product functionality that is sufficiently functional and usable to generate feedback that enables the team to decide what work should be done next or how to do it.
Location: 220952

If applying a plan-driven approach doesn’t work, the prevailing attitude is that we must have done something wrong. Even if a plan-driven process repeatedly produces disappointing results, many organizations continue to apply the same approach, sure that if they just do it better, their results will improve. The problem, however, is not with the execution. It’s that plan-driven approaches are based on a set of beliefs that do not match the uncertainty inherent in most product development efforts.
Location: 230339

These principles are organized into several categories as shown in Figure 3.2.
Location: 231548

In product development, however, the goal is to create the unique single instance of the product, not to manufacture the product.
Location: 234464

Iterative development acknowledges that we will probably get things wrong before we get them right and that we will do things poorly before we do them well (Goldberg and Rubin 1995). As such, iterative development is a planned rework strategy.
Location: 236548

Incremental development is based on the age-old principle of “Build some of it before you build all of it.”
Location: 237810

Traditional, sequential development processes focus first on eliminating all end uncertainty by fully defining up front what is to be built, and only then addressing means uncertainty. This simplistic, linear approach to uncertainty reduction is ill suited to the complex domain of product development, where our actions and the environment in which we operate mutually constrain one another.
Location: 246771

Plan-driven, sequential processes focus on using (or exploiting) what is currently known and predicting what isn’t known. Scrum favors a more adaptive, trial-and-error approach based on appropriate use of exploration.
Location: 255253

Exploration refers to times when we choose to gain knowledge by doing some activity, such as building a prototype, creating a proof of concept, performing a study, or conducting an experiment. In other words, when faced with uncertainty, we buy information by exploring.
Location: 255572

the desire to eliminate expensive change forces us to overinvest in each phase—doing more work than is necessary and practical. Second, we’re forced to make decisions based on important assumptions early in the process, before we have validated these assumptions with feedback from our stakeholders based on our working assets.
Location: 260185

Based on the keep-them-busy strategy, this race seems highly inefficient. I pay people to run and they seem to be running only one-quarter of the time. The rest of the time they are just standing around. Well, that’s not right! I pay them 100% salary so I want them to run 100% of the time. How about if when they’re not carrying the baton, they just run up and down the stands or perhaps run another race on an adjacent track? That way they will be utilized 100% at running.
Location: 286796

What happens if you run your computer at 100% (full processor and memory utilization)? It starts to thrash and every job on the computer slows down. In other words, the computer is working on more things and actually gets less productive work completed. Once you get into that state, it is very difficult to get out of it (you probably have to start killing jobs or reboot the machine).
Location: 288881

A related belief of traditional development is that the planning and document artifacts that get produced en route to delivering features are themselves valuable.
Location: 297102

With sequential product development, requirements are nonnegotiable, detailed up front, and meant to stand alone. In Scrum, the details of a requirement are negotiated through conversations that happen continuously during development and are fleshed out just in time and just enough for the teams to start building functionality to support that requirement.
Location: 359579

Scrum views requirements as an important degree of freedom that we can manipulate to meet our business goals. For example, if we’re running out of time or money, we can drop low-value requirements. If, during development, new information indicates that the cost/benefit ratio of a requirement has become significantly less favorable, we can choose to drop the requirement from the product. And if a new high-value requirement emerges, we have the ability to add it to the product, perhaps discarding a lower-value
Location: 360937

Customer: “Now that I see these built features, I realize I need this other feature that isn’t in the requirements document.” Developers: “If you wanted that feature, why didn’t you specify it up front?” Customer: “Well, I didn’t realize I needed that feature until I saw the product coming together.” Developers: “Well, if you had thought longer and harder about the requirements up front, you would have found that feature then instead of now.”
Location: 361936

The fact is, when developing innovative products, you can’t create complete requirements or designs up front by simply working longer and harder. Some requirements and design will always emerge once product development is under way; no amount of comprehensive up-front work will prevent that. Thus, when using Scrum, we don’t invest a great deal of time and money in fleshing out the details of a requirement up front.
Location: 362819

In Scrum, we leverage conversation as a key tool for ensuring that requirements are properly discussed and communicated. Verbal communication has the benefit of being high-bandwidth and providing fast feedback, making it easier and cheaper to gain a shared understanding.
Location: 367938

If the team isn’t able to size a story, the story is either just too big or ambiguous to be sized, or the team doesn’t have enough knowledge to estimate a size. If it’s too big, the team will need to work with the product owner to break it into more manageable stories. If the team lacks knowledge, some form of exploratory activity will be needed to acquire the information (I will discuss this topic shortly).
Location: 396519

Facts are Sacred: The power of data (Guardian Shorts)
4 highlights
---------------------------------
You can become a top coder if you want. But the bigger task is to think about the data like a journalist, rather than an analyst. What’s interesting about these numbers? What’s new? What would happen if I mashed it up with something else? Answering those questions is more important than anything else.
Location: 12163

There are still some rules, of course: crucially, the data has to be available in a form you can manipulate
Location: 21367

It has even worked out that iPhone users are more sexually active than either BlackBerry or Android owners.
Location: 122965

New York Times senior software architect Jacob Harris has called for an end to word clouds, describing them as the “mullets of the Internet”.
Location: 171230

Fairy Tales Every Child Should Know
1 highlights
---------------------------------
We are so engrossed in getting rich that we forget that by and by, when we have become rich, we shall have to learn how to live; for work can never be an end in itself; it is a "means of grace" when it is not drudgery; and it must, in the long run, be a preparation for play. For play is not organized idleness, frivolity set in a fanciful order; it is the normal, spontaneous exercise of physical activity, the wholesome gayety of the mind, the natural expression of the spirit, without self-consciousness, constraint, or the tyranny of hours and tasks. It is the highest form of energy, because it is free and creative; a joy in itself, and therefore a joy in the world. This is the explanation of the sense of freedom and elation which come from a great work of art; it is the instinctive perception of the fact that while immense toil lies behind the artist's skill, the soul of the creation came from beyond the world of work and the making of it was a bit of play. The man of creative spirit is often a tireless worker, but in his happiest hours he is at play; for all work, when it rises into freedom and power, is play.
Location: 6249

Falconer (Vintage International)
1 highlights
---------------------------------
he had never really liked any woman who wasn’t a dark-eyed blonde, who didn’t speak at least one language other than English, who didn’t have an income of her own and who couldn’t say the Girl Scout Oath.
Location: 100252

A Feast for Crows: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Four
1 highlights
---------------------------------
“Seven? No. He has faces beyond count, little one, as many faces as there are stars in the sky. In Braavos, men worship as they will . . . but at the end of every road stands Him of Many Faces, waiting.
Location: 312075

Force of Nature: Mind, Body, Soul (And, of Course, Surfing)
12 highlights
---------------------------------
Once you start to understand fear, it becomes something you can tap into.
Location: 21660

If you think about it, the flip side of fear is commitment. You can spend your life fence-sitting because you’re frightened of something bad that might happen—or you can launch yourself into it with all of your conviction and all of your intelligence.
Location: 23444

I’m consciously aware of trying to cultivate my instincts. The less you react to them, the less you have them.
Location: 29903

Once you’ve identified a goal, don’t be rigid about how you’re going to get there. Yes, the shortest distance between two points is a straight line, but life isn’t like that
Location: 38608

Fitness doesn’t have to be a duty. It doesn’t have to mean charts and graphs and heart rate printouts. It should be a pleasurable part of your life, and it should include things that you do purely because you enjoy them. Fun is an ingredient that people often forget in their fitness program.
Location: 57068

It’s not how much weight you can lift, it’s how much strength you can incorporate into your movements.
Location: 58150

You want strength that you can actually control and apply. Take big wave surfing, which requires tremendous leg strength. There are guys who are stronger than I am. Physically, they can squat more—but are they able to apply all that power into the edge of the board and project it into the right part of the wave? The ability to put all of your resources to work—that’s the real trick.
Location: 58265

The best way I’ve found to cultivate balance is standup paddling
Location: 60100

Pasteurization is the process of taking raw dairy products and cooking them at high temperatures to kill off bacteria so the food will have a longer shelf life. The problem with pasteurization is that it also destroys the food’s good bacteria, along with much of its proteins and vitamins. And mainstream dairy products also get homogenized, which means they’re forced through a fine screen that breaks their fat molecules down (so they don’t separate into layers). This changes the food’s entire molecular structure, but hey, it’ll keep for 6 months! Homogenization and pasteurization turn dairy products into dead foods.
Location: 172294

Strength comes from yielding to what is.
Location: 233855

So much of parenting is consistency. It’s like any relationship in that regard.
Location: 254914

And always remember that your children owe you nothing. You, on the other hand, owe them everything.
Location: 256098

A Game of Thrones: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book One
2 highlights
---------------------------------
Opening your eyes is all that is needing. The heart lies and the head plays tricks with us, but the eyes see true. Look with your eyes. Hear with your ears. Taste with your mouth. Smell with your nose. Feel with your skin. Then comes the thinking, afterward, and in that way knowing the truth.”
Location: 1332312

“Then Lord Eddard is a man in ten thousand. Most of us are not so strong. What is honor compared to a woman’s love? What is duty against the feel of a newborn son in your arms … or the memory of a brother’s smile? Wind and words. Wind and words. We are only human, and the gods have fashioned us for love. That is our great glory, and our great tragedy.
Location: 1661729

The Good Men Project: Real Stories from the Front Lines of Modern Manhood
1 highlights
---------------------------------
making peace with the limitations of our control.
Location: 72949

The Great Gatsby
3 highlights
---------------------------------
No amount of fire or freshness can challenge what a man will store up in his ghostly heart.
Location: 186382

the service of a vast, vulgar, and meretricious beauty.
Location: 189758

He must have looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening leaves and shivered as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass.
Location: 316369

The Hacker Ethic: A Radical Approach to the Philosophy of Business
1 highlights
---------------------------------
The Fridayization of Sunday
Location: 65784

Imagine: How Creativity Works
23 highlights
---------------------------------
although it seemed like the answer appeared out of nowhere, the brain had been laying the groundwork for the breakthrough.
Location: 52476

“Chance favors the prepared mind.”)
Location: 52666

He just needed to trust the ghost.
Location: 61116

In fact, these radical breakthroughs are so valuable that we’ve invented traditions and rituals that increase the probability of an epiphany, making us more likely to hear those remote associations coming from the right hemisphere.
Location: 66075

“We have no niche or particular focus. Basically, all we do is come up with new things. It doesn’t really matter what the thing is.”
Location: 76290

As the human brain evolved, its design slowly morphing over millions of years, this area underwent a vast expansion. The benefit of this new anatomy was an unprecedented cognitive talent called working memory.
Location: 143230

It’s impossible to overstate the importance of working memory. For one thing, there is a strong correlation between working memory and general intelligence, with variations in the size of working memory accounting for approximately 60 percent of the variation in IQ scores. (Being able to cram more ideas into the prefrontal cortex makes a person smarter.) Thanks to working memory, we can play with abstractions and analyze poems; we can obsess over math problems and treat ideas like tangible things.
Location: 143733

said, ‘you’re right, you really can’t play that.’ But he
Location: 191316

the infamous “fourth-grade slump” in creativity sets in, as students suddenly stop wanting to make art in the classroom.
Location: 240573

students who lived abroad for an extended period were significantly more likely to solve a difficult creativity problem than students who had never lived outside of their birth country.
Location: 276591

“These teams had some old friends, but they also had newbies. This mixture meant that the artists could interact efficiently—they had a familiar structure to fall back on—but they also managed to incorporate some new ideas. They were comfortable with each other, but they weren’t too comfortable.”
Location: 300161

Despite these financial struggles, a unique creative culture was developing within Pixar. This culture was defined by the free flow of ideas, by the constant interaction between computer scientists and cartoon animators. At first, these interactions were a byproduct of the technology, which remained so fraught with problems that each short film became an endless negotiation. Was this irregular shape possible to animate? What could be done about motion blur? How could a facial expression become more expressive?
Location: 308612

“Technology inspires art, and art challenges the technology.”)
Location: 312006

view in Hollywood, in contrast, is that movies are all about ideas, and that a good idea is rarer and more valuable than good people. That’s why there are so many copycat movies: everyone is chasing the same concept. But that’s a fundamentally misguided approach. A mediocre team will screw up a good idea. But if you give a mediocre idea to a great team and let them work together, they’ll find a way to succeed.”
Location: 312807

“The atrium initially might seem like a waste of space . . . But Steve realized that when people run into each other, when they make eye contact, things happen. So he made it impossible for you not to run into the rest of the company.”
Location: 315741

“The faster you are, the more money you make.”
Location: 323510

“Ed and I were really determined to create a kind of mutual admiration society, so that the techies thought the artists were geniuses, and the artists thought the techies were magicians.
Location: 325995

Christopher Langton once observed that innovative systems constantly veer toward the “edge of chaos,” to those environments that are neither fully predictable nor fully anarchic.
Location: 326430

How did Pixar fix Toy Story 2? The first change was physical. Lasseter immediately moved everyone into the same space, so the engineers and storytellers and directors were all crammed into a small cluster of cubicles.
Location: 350402

all the departments, no matter what movie they were working on, to be together.”
Location: 350889

By its nature, the metropolis provides what otherwise could be given only by traveling; namely, the strange. —Jane Jacobs
Location: 362586

the students in the play-based school scored better on a variety of crucial cognitive skills, including self-control, the allocation of attention, and working memory. (All of these skills have been consistently linked to academic and real-world achievement.) According to the researchers, the advantage of play is that it’s often deeply serious—kids are most focused when they’re having fun. In fact, the results from the controlled study were so compelling that the experiment was halted early—it seemed unethical to keep kids in the typical preschool
Location: 473165

Kids don’t learn when they’re consuming information, when someone is talking down to them.
Location: 479971

In The Plex: How Google Thinks, Works, and Shapes Our Lives
20 highlights
---------------------------------
Google’s search engines would thereafter undergo major transformations every two or three years, with similar stealth. “It’s like changing the engines on a plane flying a thousand kilometers an hour, thirty thousand feet above the earth,”
Location: 152540

And in my time, we have replaced our propellers with turboprops and our turboprops with jet engines. The passengers don’t notice, but the ride is more comfortable and the people get there faster.”
Location: 152935

He was also amazed at how pampered employees were. Every search engineer had exclusive use of a set of servers that stored an index of the entire web—it was the digital equivalent of giving a physicist her own particle accelerator.
Location: 179249

“The whole point of a mirror world is that it’s wired in real time and place—it’s supposed to mirror reality rather than being a parallel reality or cyberworld,”
Location: 185998

He felt it would be ludicrous to have a separate division at Google that specialized in things like machine learning—instead, artificial intelligence should be spread everywhere in the company.
Location: 194026

Och’s official role was as a scientist in Google’s research group, but it is indicative of Google’s view of research that no step was required to move beyond study into actual product implementation.
Location: 200173

But Kordestani preferred a start-up. He was sufficiently experienced in Silicon Valley ways to know that scruffy former grad students recommended by top VCs were more likely to deliver treasures than even the wizard of Cupertino.
Location: 234395

But Page argued that if something distasteful showed up, Google could address it afterward. Fixing the small percentage of bad ads after the fact was much more efficient than building a bureaucracy to prevent any from appearing in the first place.
Location: 299911

he described his concept of how compressing data was equivalent in many ways to understanding it. That concept, he argued, could be a key to algorithmically squeezing meaning from web pages.
Location: 311297

“Yes, search is a huge system, but it’s stateless—you can easily serve it from ten different places in the world, and if this version is slightly different than that version, the user won’t know, nobody will notice. But with advertising, the state is important, because advertisers are always updating their campaigns, and microtransactions are happening at ferocious rates per second, and all that has to be synchronized.”
Location: 360931

“Discipline must come through liberty…. We do not consider an individual disciplined only when he has been rendered as artificially silent as a mute and as immovable as a paralytic. He is an individual annihilated, not disciplined. We call an individual disciplined when he is master of himself.”
Location: 386668

They envisioned an organizational map of Google as looking like a huge sheet covered with polka dots: small teams, flat organizations. The sheet would just get bigger, that was all.
Location: 492039

good culture fits and technical enough and could be highly respected by the engineers,”
Location: 496757

“Google still does try to keep things small and have teams that are really motivated, who feel they own the project,” says Urs Hölzle. But when a team begins to get too big, Google breaks the project into smaller pieces to keep the teams smaller—it refers to this practice as “load balancing,”
Location: 505805

70–20–10. Seventy percent of its engineers would work in either search or ads. Twenty percent would focus on key products such as applications. The remaining 10 percent would work on wild cards,
Location: 506441

So Google spent a lot of effort on actual bureaucracy—a regular set of launch meetings and reviews, weekly meetings of the Operating Committee of the top leaders, global product strategy meetings, and a companywide peer review system that consumed enormous time.
Location: 514440

“Speed can drive usage as much as having bells and whistles on your product.
Location: 575459

Page’s Law, according to Brin, was the observation that every eighteen months, software becomes twice as slow.
Location: 577174

Rubin gave his presentation, and the division head rocked with laughter. “You have eight people in your company,” said this executive. “And I have two thousand people working on something that’s not as ambitious.” It wasn’t a compliment.
Location: 667504

Google Video team had spent an enormous amount of time getting approval and advice from executives. Also, Google Video—whose product manager was herself a lawyer—was constrained by oversight by a legal team all too aware that a deep-pocketed public company could not behave with the insouciance of a start-up. The YouTube team, however, didn’t have to create multiple drafts of slide shows for bosses. They did what felt right. “It’s all ’bout da videos, yo,” wrote Karim at one point to his cofounders.
Location: 775731

iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide (Big Nerd Ranch Guides)
4 highlights
---------------------------------
In these languages, it isn’t completely obvious what each of the arguments sent to this function are. In Objective-C, however, each argument is paired with the appropriate label. [arrayInstance replaceObjectsInRange:aRange                 withObjectsFromArray:anotherArray                                range:anotherRange]; It takes some getting used to, but eventually, Objective-C programmers appreciate the clarity of arguments being interposed into the selector.
Location: 161538

if your program isn’t doing anything when you think it should be doing something, an unexpected nil pointer is often the culprit.)
Location: 166313

 CLLocationCoordinate2D coordinate;
Location: 439779

Forward declaring a class saves time when compiling – especially with large projects.
Location: 472319

The Leader's Guide to Radical Management: Reinventing the Workplace for the 21st Century
27 highlights
---------------------------------
Finding ways to measure client delight and the consequent impact on firm growth has been systematically studied by Fred Reichheld and his colleagues at the consulting firm Bain & Company for over twenty-five years.5 • Self-organizing teams have been the staple of new product development for several decades.6 • Iterative work practices have been promoted since the 1930s by Walter Shewhart, a quality expert at
Location: 137115

They would need to be cross-functional teams and have the leeway to organize themselves, including the responsibility for figuring out how to do the work. The teams would be small, with no more than eight or nine people—preferably smaller,
Location: 146313

“Twenty-five years.” Sutherland asked him whether, in all that time, the plans that were supported by Gantt charts and looked good on paper had ever led to software being delivered on time.
Location: 147760

It analyzes the flow of materials and information currently required to bring a product or service to a customer. In effect, the workplace is viewed from the ultimate customers’ point of view, with the object of accelerating or eliminating any step or activity that does not add value to them.9
Location: 403797

Radical management organizes work not in hierarchical divisions and departments, but rather by having projects done by cross-functional teams working in client-driven iterations
Location: 404515

traditional management typically doesn’t explicitly monitor the time it takes to deliver value to customers, and rarely does so as carefully or intensively as the more easily measurable financial measures of cost and profit. Yet time turns out to be a more important factor in organizational performance than traditional financial measurements. That’s because when you put a primary focus on cost, you end up having to make trade-offs between cost and responsiveness.
Location: 409018

They demonstrate the importance of focusing on getting more value to clients sooner—that is, the time spent from order to delivery, rather than the speed of individual components of the system. It means looking at work from the ultimate client’s point of view and optimizing that experience.
Location: 412537

He said that people who asked that kind of question didn’t understand our obligation to do both: we had to lend more money and we had to have high quality. There was no conflict. People who couldn’t see that didn’t belong in the World Bank.
Location: 449325

was striking to see how McNamara’s internally contradictory statements were made to stick by the sheer force of his presentation.
Location: 450697

Institutionalized bullshit
Location: 456362

If they do, it is their integrity that will be put in question. They will be seen as rocking the boat and not being team players. As a result, most teams go with the flow and lose any possibility of achieving high performance. A few courageous teams may speak out about the issue and point to the truth.
Location: 456825

Workers are issuing progress reports to managers saying that everything is okay and that their work is proceeding according to plan with only minor issues.
Location: 458775

If anyone brings up a real problem without a solution, they are silenced for not being a team player.
Location: 459697

There is talk of improvement of morale. Karaoke competitions are held. Retreats are staged. Managers come and go. It makes no difference. Nothing changes. It’s simply the way things are. This is normal in the world of traditional management. This is what happens when you take the blue pill.
Location: 460300

What did you do yesterday? What are you going to do today? What impediments are you facing?
Location: 468453

Simple visual displays that everyone can see. It is striking to visit the workplaces of computer experts and find the walls covered with handwritten sticky notes, cards, and charts. The displays serve as ever-present information radiators. Anyone can walk by and see what has been completed, what is being worked on, and what is coming next. There is no need for progress reports. The reality is always visible.
Location: 468907

institutionalized bullshit isn’t healthy for the human spirit. It creates distrust of oneself, disconnection with others, and the betrayal of stakeholders. It leads to a divided life.
Location: 476104

It’s no longer just one person’s problem if something is not going as well as hoped for. Now it’s the team’s problem,
Location: 479946

At the end of each iteration of work, the team produces not progress reports but items of finished work—something that is of value to the client or stakeholder. The focus is on completing work at the earliest opportunity, because finished work is more transparent than reports about work.
Location: 482722

By contrast, in radical management, people who bring bad news to the management’s attention are celebrated, even if they have no immediate and obvious solutions for the problem.
Location: 484951

workers on Toyota’s production line are congratulated if they spot a quality problem on the line: the line stops until the problem is understood and fixed—something that is almost inconceivable in traditional organizations.
Location: 485244

We learn about the character of an organization not from the fact that it encounters adversity but how it deals with it.
Location: 539526

Productivity gains of continuous self-improvement occur at low levels of the organization where the work is getting done.
Location: 542768

teams, some in the Netherlands and some in India, are set up in a counterintuitive way: instead of having complete teams in each country, each team is split between the two places, with half its members in the Netherlands and half in India.
Location: 631013

Why were people spending time writing about information that would be out of date by the time it was read
Location: 644518

planning poker,
Location: 669569

Hlavin’s proudest day will be when an employee comes to him and says: “I’m going to start my own company, and the genesis was from Thogus.”
Location: 676237

The Lean Startup: How Today's Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses
61 highlights
---------------------------------
We do everything wrong: instead of spending years perfecting our technology, we build a minimum viable product, an early product that is terrible, full of bugs and crash-your-computer-yes-really stability problems. Then we ship it to customers way before it’s ready.
Location: 19596

At first, largely because of my background, I viewed these as technical problems that required technical solutions: better architecture, a better engineering process, better discipline, focus, or product vision. These supposed fixes led to still more failure.
Location: 22360

The first problem is the allure of a good plan, a solid strategy, and thorough market research.
Location: 31390

For example, consider the recommendation that you build cross-functional teams and hold them accountable to what we call learning milestones instead of organizing your company into strict functional departments (marketing, sales, information technology, human resources, etc.) that hold people accountable for performing well in their specialized areas (see Chapter 7).
Location: 42753

When people are used to evaluating their productivity locally, they feel that a good day is one in which they did their job well all day. When I worked as a programmer, that meant eight straight hours of programming without interruption. That was a good day. In contrast, if I was interrupted with questions, process, or—heaven forbid—meetings, I felt bad.
Location: 43889

Unfortunately, too many startup business plans look more like they are planning to launch a rocket ship than drive a car.
Location: 48328

The Lean Startup method, in contrast, is designed to teach you how to drive a startup. Instead of making complex plans that are based on a lot of assumptions, you can make constant adjustments with a steering wheel called the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop.
Location: 49527

in general management, a failure to deliver results is due to either a failure to plan adequately or a failure to execute properly.
Location: 53345

success depends only on execution—so much so that this success can be modeled with high accuracy.
Location: 62698

The future is unpredictable, customers face a growing array of alternatives, and the pace of change is ever increasing. Yet most startups—in garages and enterprises alike—still are managed by using standard forecasts, product milestones, and detailed business plans.
Location: 63191

“Boy, the amount of learning they get is just immense now. And what it does is develop entrepreneurs, because when you have only one test, you don’t have entrepreneurs, you have politicians, because you have to sell. Out of a hundred good ideas, you’ve got to sell your idea. So you build up a society of politicians and salespeople. When you have five hundred tests you’re running, then everybody’s ideas can run. And then you create entrepreneurs who run and learn and can retest and relearn as opposed to a society of politicians.
Location: 72684

“Developing these experimentation systems is the responsibility of senior management; they have to be put in by the leadership. It’s moving leaders from playing Caesar with their thumbs up and down on every idea to—instead—putting in the culture and the systems so that teams can move and innovate at the speed of the experimentation system.”
Location: 78361

We spent endless hours arguing about which bugs to fix and which we could live with, which features to cut and which to try to cram in. It was a wonderful and terrifying time: we were full of hope about the possibilities for success and full of fear about the consequences of shipping a bad product.
Location: 88196

As launch day approached, our fears escalated. In our situation, many entrepreneurial teams give in to fear and postpone the launch date. Although I understand this impulse, I am glad we persevered, since delay prevents many startups from getting the feedback they need.
Location: 89019

For example, it is inadequate to build a prototype that is evaluated solely for internal quality by engineers and designers. We also need to get it in front of potential customers to gauge their reactions.
Location: 161955

The Lean Startup method builds capital-efficient companies because it allows startups to recognize that it’s time to pivot sooner, creating less waste of time and money.
Location: 163863

genchi gembutsu,
Location: 180749

“go and see for yourself”
Location: 180911

You cannot be sure you really understand any part of any business problem unless you go and see for yourself firsthand.
Location: 181513

chief engineer, a cross-functional leader who oversees the entire process from concept to production.
Location: 182122

In small towns and large cities, Yokoya would rent a current-model Sienna, driving it in addition to talking to and observing real customers. From those firsthand observations, Yokoya was able to start testing his critical assumptions about what North American consumers wanted in a minivan.
Location: 182632

Traditional approaches such as interaction design or design thinking are enormously helpful. To me, it has always seemed ironic that many of these approaches are highly experimental and iterative, using techniques such as rapid prototyping and in-person customer observations to guide designers’ work. Yet because of the way design agencies traditionally have been compensated, all this work culminates in a monolithic deliverable to the client. All of a sudden, the rapid learning and experimentation stops;
Location: 188908

No amount of design can anticipate the many complexities of bringing a product to life in the real world.
Location: 189539

(Lean UX).
Location: 189827

most of these errors cannot be detected at the whiteboard because they depend on the subtle interactions between products and customers.
Location: 191332

Drew did something unexpectedly easy: he made a video.
Location: 206809

But they didn’t spend that year at the whiteboard strategizing or engage in a lengthy market research project. Instead, they built a series of functioning products, each designed to test a way of solving this problem for their customers. Each product was then offered to beta testers, whose behavior was used to validate or refute each specific hypothesis
Location: 218014

The truth is that most managers in most companies are already overwhelmed with good ideas. Their challenge lies in prioritization and execution, and it is those challenges that give a startup hope of surviving.10
Location: 235325

Cycle after cycle, the team is working hard, but the business is not seeing results. Managers trained in a traditional model draw the logical conclusion: our team is not working hard, not working effectively, or not working efficiently.
Location: 267386

As the specifications get more detailed, the planning process slows down, batch size increases, and feedback is delayed.
Location: 268087

Validated was defined as “knowing whether the story was a good idea to have been done in the first place.”
Location: 292517

lazy registration
Location: 297690

Each employee could log in to the system at any time, choose from a list of all current and past experiments, and see a simple one-page summary of the results. Over time, those one-page summaries became the de facto standard for settling product arguments throughout the organization.
Location: 308640

the failure of the “launch it and see what happens” approach should now be evident: you will always succeed—in seeing what happens. Except in rare cases, the early results will be ambiguous, and you won’t know whether to pivot or persevere,
Location: 343578

We created a sandbox for experimentation like the one described in Chapter 12 and had a cross-functional team work exclusively on this major redesign.
Location: 367920

Today’s companies must learn to master a management portfolio of sustainable and disruptive innovation.
Location: 386702

The father won the race, and not just because he is an adult. It happened because the one envelope at a time approach is a faster way of getting the job done even though it seems inefficient. This has been confirmed in many studies, including one that was recorded on video.1
Location: 388739

For example, imagine that the letters didn’t fit in the envelopes. With the large-batch approach, we wouldn’t find that out until nearly the end. With small batches, we’d know almost immediately.
Location: 390713

Instead of buying large specialized machines that could produce thousands of parts at a time, Toyota used smaller general-purpose machines that could produce a wide variety of parts in small batches. This required figuring out ways to reconfigure each machine rapidly to make the right part at the right time. By focusing on this “changeover time,” Toyota was able to produce entire automobiles by using small batches throughout the process.
Location: 393154

This is the origin of Toyota’s famous andon cord, which allows any worker to ask for help as soon as they notice any problem, such as a defect in a physical part, stopping the entire production line if it cannot be corrected immediately.
Location: 395154

Working in small batches ensures that a startup can minimize the expenditure of time, money, and effort that ultimately turns out to have been wasted.
Location: 397083

Instead of working in separate departments, engineers and designers would work together side by side on one feature at a time.
Location: 399735

Just as with the Toyota Production System, the key to being able to operate this quickly is to check for defects immediately, thus preventing bigger problems later. For example, we had an extensive set of automated tests that assured that after every change our product still worked as designed.
Location: 400446

for established companies looking to accelerate their innovation teams, building this platform for experimentation is the responsibility of senior management.
Location: 412182

THE LARGE-BATCH DEATH SPIRAL Small batches pose a challenge to managers steeped in traditional notions of productivity and progress, because they believe that functional specialization is more efficient for expert workers. Imagine you’re a product designer overseeing a new product and you need to produce thirty individual design drawings. It probably seems that the most efficient way to work is in seclusion, by yourself, producing the designs one by one. Then, when you’re done with all of them, you pass the drawings on to the engineering team and let them work. In other words, you work in large batches. From the point of view of individual efficiency, working in large batches makes sense. It also has other benefits: it promotes skill building, makes it easier to hold individual contributors accountable, and, most important, allows experts to work without interruption. At least that’s the theory.
Location: 415294

These problems inevitably turn into interruptions for the designer, and now those interruptions are interfering with the next large batch the designer is supposed to be working on. If the drawings need to be redone, the engineers may become idle while they wait for the rework to be completed. If the designer is not available, the engineers may have to redo the designs themselves. This is why so few products are actually built the way they are designed.
Location: 417107

Large batches tend to grow over time. Because moving the batch forward often results in additional work, rework, delays, and interruptions, everyone has an incentive to do work in ever-larger batches, trying to minimize this overhead. This is called the large-batch death spiral because, unlike in manufacturing, there are no physical limits on the maximum size of a batch.
Location: 418348

Eventually, one batch will become the highest-priority project, a “bet the company” new version of the product, because the company has taken such a long time since the last release.
Location: 418877

As our plans became more ambitious, so too did the number of bugs, conflicts, and problems we had to deal with. Pretty soon we got into a situation in which we could not ship anything. Our launch date seemed to recede into the distance. The more work we got done, the more work we had to do.
Location: 419834

all the work that goes into designing the minimum viable product is—until the moment that product is shipped—just WIP inventory.
Location: 425106

Handoffs and approvals slow down the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop and inhibit both learning and accountability.
Location: 541162

At Toyota, the manager in charge of developing a new vehicle from start to finish is called the shusa, or chief engineer:
Location: 543024

Shusa are often called heavy-weight project managers in the U.S. literature, but this name understates their real roles as design leaders. Toyota employees translate the term as chief engineer, and they refer to the vehicle under development as the shusa’s car. They assured us that the shusa has final, absolute authority over every aspect of vehicle development.1
Location: 543290

Hiding from the parent organization can have long-term negative consequences.
Location: 554008

the innovation team should be cross-functional and have a clear team leader, like the Toyota shusa. It should be empowered to build, market, and deploy products or features in the sandbox without prior approval. It should be required to report on the success or failure of those efforts by using standard actionable metrics and innovation accounting.
Location: 558678

Functional specialists, especially those steeped in waterfall or stage-gate development, have been trained to work in extremely large batches. This causes even good ideas to get bogged down by waste. By making the batch size small, the sandbox method allows teams to make cheap mistakes quickly and start learning.
Location: 561039

changing the definition of productivity for a team from functional excellence—excellence in marketing, sales, or product development—to validated learning will cause problems. As was indicated earlier, functional specialists are accustomed to measuring their efficiency by looking at the proportion of time they are busy doing their work.
Location: 575375

we want to force teams to work cross-functionally to achieve validated learning. Many of the techniques for doing this—actionable metrics, continuous deployment, and the overall Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop—necessarily cause teams to suboptimize for their individual functions. It does not matter how fast we can build. It does not matter how fast we can measure. What matters is how fast we can get through the entire loop.
Location: 576115

By focusing on functional efficiency, we lose sight of the real goal of innovation: to learn that which is currently unknown.
Location: 586470

This has led to two problems: (1) business systems became overly rigid and thereby failed to take advantage of the adaptability, creativity, and wisdom of individual workers, and (2) there has been an overemphasis on planning, prevention, and procedure, which enable organizations to achieve consistent results in a mostly static world.
Location: 591193

As we’ve seen, too many innovation teams engage in success theater, selectively finding data that support their vision rather than exposing the elements of the vision to true experiments, or, even worse, staying in stealth mode to create a data-free zone for unlimited “experimentation” that is devoid of customer feedback or external accountability of any kind. Anytime
Location: 593494

Little Bets: How Breakthrough Ideas Emerge from Small Discoveries
41 highlights
---------------------------------
two basic types of innovators, which he calls conceptual and experimental. Conceptual innovators, such as Mozart, tend to pursue bold new ideas and often achieve their greatest breakthroughs early in life. To be sure, there is an important place for such creative geniuses. Yet, as we all know, prodigies are exceptionally rare.
Location: 18937

when trying to do something new or uncertain, we rarely know what we don’t know.
Location: 19913

When much is known, procedural planning approaches work perfectly well. When much is unknown, they do not.
Location: 27671

Design thinking provides a set of creative methodologies for solving problems and generating ideas that is based on building up solutions, rather than starting with the answer.
Location: 29990

Play: A playful, improvisational, and humorous atmosphere quiets our inhibitions when ideas are incubating or newly hatched, and prevents creative ideas from being snuffed out or prematurely judged. • Immerse: Take time to get out into the world to gather fresh ideas and insights, in order to understand deeper human motivations and desires, and absorb how things work from the ground up. • Define: Use insights gathered throughout the process to define specific problems and needs before solving them, just as the Google
Location: 32748

founders did when they realized that their library search algorithm could address a much larger problem. • Reorient: Be flexible in pursuit of larger goals and aspirations, making good use of small wins to make necessary pivots and chart the course to completion. • Iterate: Repeat, refine, and test frequently armed with better insights, information, and assumptions as time goes on, as Chris Rock does to perfect his act.
Location: 33454

“there’s a natural tendency to think in terms of bigger bets as you get to be bigger.”
Location: 43109

they only looked at opportunities that were already billion dollar markets.
Location: 43512

“The reason they all failed and the reason they were big is that someone was already there.”
Location: 44569

In army terms, these are called “doctrinally approved solutions.” Military doctrine enables the army to manage its operations across a large organization.
Location: 51425

“War is so complex it’s beyond the ability of the human mind to comprehend all the variables.”
Location: 55234

The counterinsurgency approach is one of discovery and experimentation, a creative approach to warfare.
Location: 58835

developing the situation through action.
Location: 59128

“You have to catch people making mistakes and make it so that it’s cool. You have to make it undesirable to play it safe.”
Location: 59621

that it enables us to focus on what we can afford to lose rather than make assumptions about how much we can expect to gain, and that it facilitates the development of means as we progress with an idea.
Location: 60992

Pixar would become a sensational success, but not at all according to an ordained plan.
Location: 64002

they are not rigid in pursuit of that vision, and that they persevere through failures, often many of them. When they run into problems, they accept that they must go down some unexpected paths in order to get to the ultimate goal, or maybe even redefine what that ultimate goal should be. This requires being willing to walk away from ideas that seemed great, overcoming significant challenges, as well as coping with the emotional impact of failure.
Location: 72574

By expecting to get things right at the start, we block ourselves psychologically and choke off a host of opportunities to learn.
Location: 74199

“If you try to shortcut the game, then the game will shortcut you,”
Location: 76976

people exhibiting fixed mind-sets tend to gravitate to activities that confirm their abilities, whereas those with growth mindsets tend to seek activities that expand their abilities.
Location: 78974

“We gave black sheep a chance to prove their theories, and we changed the way
Location: 86614

“What they have in common is a restless, probing nature: ‘I want to get to the problem. There’s something I want to do.’ If you had thermal glasses, you could see heat coming off them.”
Location: 87732

Ed Catmull sums up Pixar’s creative process, he describes it as going from suck to nonsuck.
Location: 88274

Steve Jobs will famously refuse to release a new Apple product, or product enclosure even, until it’s as close to perfect as possible. Yet none of them allow perfectionism to paralyze their creative processes, at least not for long.
Location: 102974

What the creation of low cost, rough prototypes makes possible is failing quickly in order to learn fast.
Location: 105203

“My strategy has always been: be wrong as fast as we can. Which basically means, we’re gonna screw up, let’s just admit that. Let’s not be afraid of that. But let’s do it as fast as we can so we can get to the answer.
Location: 105583

“The artist acts out the boards, telling the story and trying to relate the material in the best way,”
Location: 120876

better to fix problems than prevent errors.
Location: 125540

to
Location: 125972

One of the biggest problems with such unhealthy perfectionism is that so much time can pass before actually doing anything.
Location: 127168

P&G has had to confront those deep cultural inclinations for detailed planning and error minimization.
Location: 129998

encouraged employees to talk during management reviews about mistakes they made during planning processes and what they learned, rather than what went
Location: 130198

placing the emphasis on doing to be able to think rather than thinking in order to do.
Location: 130504

“We don’t actually finish our films, we release them.”
Location: 154366

the Japanese teams were crossfunctional, had autonomy largely unobstructed by top management, would self organize, and would learn what to do as they proceeded.
Location: 172177

By contrast, software traditionally is developed in a way in which the solution is planned, designed, and detailed before the project begins.
Location: 172982

And when they get to one million users, they would almost certainly have to rip up and rewrite large sections of the software code because of the new insights they would have learned.
Location: 181821

“We basically went into the areas that were completely unknown to us,” he says. They used this reconnaissance to identify and frame discrete problems to tackle.
Location: 187433

“But by the time they are six and a half years old they stop asking questions because they quickly learn that teachers value the right answers more than provocative questions.”
Location: 230882

“Once a small win has been accomplished, forces are set in motion that favor another small win.”
Location: 283301

“The side that learns and adapts the fastest often prevails.”
Location: 310164

Makers: The New Industrial Revolution
37 highlights
---------------------------------
Meanwhile, the rise of “open hardware,” another part of what’s known as the Maker Movement, is now doing for physical goods what open source did for software. Just as online communities of programmers created everything from the Linux operating system that runs most of today’s websites to the Firefox Web browser, new communities of Makers are doing the same with electronics, scientific instrumentation, architecture, and even agricultural tools. There are now scores of multimillion-dollar open-hardware companies (including my own company, 3D Robotics8); some of them, such as the Arduino electronics development board, have sold more than a million units. Google, too, has joined the movement, releasing open-hardware electronics to connect to the hundreds of millions of phones and other devices that now
Location: 39505

What the Web taught us was the power of “network effects”: when you connect people and ideas, they grow. It’s a virtual circle—more people combined create more value, which in turn attracts even more people, and so on. That’s what has driven the ascent of Facebook, Twitter, and practically every other successful company online today. What Makers are doing is taking the DIY movement online—“making in public”—which introduces network effects on a massive scale.
Location: 44215

A service economy is all well and good, but eliminate manufacturing and you’re a nation of bankers, burger flippers, and tour guides.
Location: 50429

This is often called “physical computing” or “embedded computing,” and you see examples of it all around you. Practically every electronic device in your home works this way, from your thermostat to your alarm clocks, stereos, microwave oven, and portable music players. Your car has dozens of embedded computers.
Location: 62017

Advanced Circuits, with which I had worked before) and sent
Location: 65210

In other words, it was a scalable mechanism, able to take advantage of bigger sources of power than just arms and legs.
Location: 72918

Britain was finding it increasingly difficult to support its empire on resource extraction from its colonies alone, especially as they became more difficult to manage. It needed to increase production at home, where the political and military costs were lower. Mechanized planting and harvesting tools were already hugely increasing the output of British farms. The arrival of machines to turn agricultural commodities into goods that could be sold around the world promised the opportunity to shift from a nation that commanded global power by force to one that used trade instead.
Location: 75649

“Second Industrial Revolution.” They place it from 1850 to around the end of World War I, which includes Henry Ford’s Model-T assembly line, with its innovations of stockpiles of interchangeable parts and the use of conveyer belts, where products being produced moved to stationary workers (who each did a single task), rather than the other way around.
Location: 83188

The digital transformation of making stuff is doing more than simply making existing manufacturing more efficient. It’s also extending manufacturing to a hugely expanded population of producers—the existing manufacturers plus a lot of regular folk who are becoming entrepreneurs. Sound familiar? It’s exactly what happened with the Web, which was colonized first by technology and media companies, which used it to do better what they already did. Then software and hardware advances made the Web easier to use for regular folks (it was “democratized”), and they charged in with their own ideas, expertise, and energy. Today the vast majority of the Web is built by amateurs, semipros, and people who don’t work for big technology and media companies.
Location: 88738

As a result, Manchester’s manufacturing became the envy of the world, and companies everywhere sought to copy its model. Sadly for the local factories, they could. Along with selling clothing, Manchester firms started selling the machines that made them. Companies such as J&R Shorrocks and Platt Brothers, which were famed for their engineering skills, soon were exporting their machinery around the world, where it was copied, enhanced, and otherwise commoditized. By the 1900s, huge textile factories could be found from France to America. Manchester’s mechanical advantages had been matched, and new industrial centers closer to agricultural sources of the raw cotton, especially in the American South, began to take over.
Location: 93982

Manchester’s factories went through the long-familiar quest to move upstream, with more-fashionable designs, higher quality, branded appeal, and further mechanical innovation. It certainly helped, and averted what might have been an overnight implosion of an industry in the face of cheaper competitors. Instead, Manchester’s textile decline stretched out over a century. But by the 1950s, there were more empty factories than full ones, and the city had become a
Location: 94765

minimal set of digital fabrication tools: a laser cutter, a vinyl cutter, a big CNC machine for furniture and a small one for circuit boards, basic electronics equipment, and sometimes a 3-D printer, too.
Location: 100546

They’re distributed in a way that reflects the natural geography of ideas, not the hub-and-spoke logic of massive supply chains and cheap industrial land.
Location: 110242

Imagine a course where kids would learn to use free 3-D CAD tools such as Sketchup or Autodesk 123D. Some would design buildings and fantastic structures, much as they sketch in their notebooks already. Others would create elaborate videogame levels with landscapes and vehicles. And yet others would invent machines.
Location: 118026

Even better, imagine if each design classroom had a few 3-D printers or a laser cutter. All those desktop design tools have a “Make” menu item. Kids could actually fabricate what they have drawn onscreen. Just consider what it would mean to them to hold something they dreamed up. This is how a generation of Makers will be created. This is how the next wave of manufacturing entrepreneurs will be born.
Location: 118379

In a sense, you could “prototype” a publication at home by printing a few copies, and then, when it looked right, you could take a floppy disk with the file to a copy shop to be printed in volume. Consumer-grade desktop tools spoke the same language (Postscript) as the biggest industrial printing plants. It wasn’t for everyone at the start, to be sure, but over time, high-quality color desktop printers got cheaper and better. Today such printers cost less than $100 and are in practically every home (the killer app turned out to be digital photography, not newsletters and flyers).
Location: 123256

Like then, the first users are a little lost. When desktop publishing was first introduced, tens of thousands of people discovered that they knew nothing about fonts, kerning, text flow, anchors, and all that; they had to learn a couple of centuries’ worth of publishing terms and techniques overnight. Many garish documents with a dog’s breakfast of typefaces ensued, but so did an explosion of creativity that ultimately led to today’s Web.
Location: 126322

The rise of Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest, and all the others like them is nothing less than a massive attention shift from the commercial content companies of the
Location: 140221

twentieth century to the amateur content companies of the twenty-first.
Location: 140383

Web-based manufacturing
Location: 140938

Manufacturing has now become just another “cloud service”
Location: 141220

It’s about rentership of the means of production.”
Location: 142101

firm, calls “the power of the unique.” In a world dominated by one-size-fits-all commodity goods, the way to stand out is to create products that serve individual needs, not general ones. Custom-made bikes fit better. Right now this is mostly the privilege of the rich, as such products require handcrafting. But what if they could be produced using digital manufacturing
Location: 145040

What’s more, consumers tend to value more highly products in which they feel they have had a hand in their creation, whether assembling a kit or just encouraging the creators themselves online.
Location: 151077

And the more products become information, the more they can be treated as information: collaboratively created by anyone, shared globally online, remixed and reimagined, given away for free, or, if you choose, held secret. In short, the reason atoms are the new bits is that they can increasingly be made to act like bits.
Location: 156670

The answer comes down to the unique qualities of digital information. It seems like such a small distinction: products shared as physical things or products shared as digital descriptions of physical things.
Location: 159256

We live in a “remix” culture: everything is inspired by something that came before, and creativity is shown as much in the reinterpretation of existing works as in original ones. That’s always been true (the Greeks argued that there were only seven basic plots, and all stories just changed the details of one or another of them), but it’s never been easier than it is now.
Location: 159911

Autodesk now preaches the gospel of “Rip. Mod. Fab” (3-D scan objects, modify them in a CAD program, and print them on a 3-D printer).
Location: 160384

Think of a digital product design not as a picture of what it should be, but instead as a mathematical equation of how to make it.
Location: 161555

Software is increasingly driving the design process, with the broad strokes created by the human eye but the details and variations all filled in by code following rules dictated by material properties and manufacturing efficiencies, easily remixed
Location: 164141

“Algorithms, software, hardware and digital manufacturing tools are the new standards of product design.… Unlike a mechanical imprint, which physically stamps the same form onto objects, an algorithmic imprint lets outward and visible forms change and morph from one object to the next.”
Location: 164511

“small batch,”
Location: 169765

The Web was just the proof-of-concept of what an open, bottom-up, collaborative industrial model could look like. Now the revolution hits the real world.
Location: 170743

It is the reverse of mass production, which favors repetition and standardization. Instead, 3-D printing favors individualization and customization. The big win of the digital manufacturing age is that we can have our choice between the two without having to fall back on expensive handcrafting: both mass and custom are now viable automated manufacturing methods.
Location: 184885

fused deposition modeling (FDM). Other higher-end machines use lasers to harden liquid resin in a bath (known as stereolithography, or SLA) or harden layers of powdered plastic, metal, or ceramic, a process known as selective laser sintering (SLS). The
Location: 190794

MakerBot is not just a tool. It’s also a plaything. It’s a revolutionary act. It’s a kinetic sculpture. It’s a political statement. It’s thrillingly cool.
Location: 198590

The Maker gear is as much about its process of creation as it is about the product itself. The fact that a MakerBot was designed by a community, manufactured by people whose names you know and whose vision you admire, and infused with personality is what makes it special. Buy one and you’re not just buying a printer—you’re buying a front-row seat to a cultural transformation. Open source is not just an efficient innovation method—it’s a belief system as powerful as democracy or capitalism for its adherents.
Location: 199016

Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game
3 highlights
---------------------------------
He was fascinated by irrationality, and the opportunities it created in human affairs for anyone who resisted it.
Location: 60994

“Managers tend to pick a strategy that is least likely to fail rather than pick a strategy that is most efficient,”
Location: 209153

But they did this less with honest curiosity than in the spirit of a beleaguered visitor to Morocco hiring a tour guide: pay off one so that the seventy-five others will stop trying to trade you their camels for your wife.
Location: 228966

Obliquity: Why Our Goals Are Best Achieved Indirectly
8 highlights
---------------------------------
Tell all the truth, but tell it slant. Success in circuit lies. —Emily Dickinson4
Location: 16624

The shortest crossing of America was found by seekers for gold, not explorers of oceans.
Location: 40584

The psychologist Daniel Nettle suggests that there are three broad senses of the term happiness.2 The lowest—the basic level—comprises the momentary feelings that make us happy—the joy of sex, the pleasure of a beautiful sunset. The intermediate level is typically a state of mind rather than a physical response, a sense of satisfaction and well-being. These states of mind involve judgments about feelings as distinct from the feelings themselves. Eudaimonia is a high-level concept, a measure of quality of life, of flourishing, of fulfilling one’s potential. Similar distinctions and taxonomies are used by other writers.3
Location: 81349

An old story tells of a visitor who encounters three stonemasons working on a medieval cathedral and asks each what he is doing. “I am cutting this stone to shape,” says the first, describing his basic actions. “I am building a great cathedral,” says the second, describing his intermediate goal. “And I am working for the glory of God,” says the third, describing his high-level objective. The construction of architectural masterpieces required that high objectives be pursued through lesser, but nonetheless fulfilling, goals and actions.
Location: 82880

Objectives, goals, states, actions evolve together because learning about the nature of high-level goals is a never-ending process. The distinction between means and ends, which seems obvious and important in simple problem solving, is, as Lindblom explains, not central to practical decision
Location: 116016

making. The process in which well-defined and prioritized objectives are broken down into specific states and actions whose progress can be monitored and measured is not the reality of how people find fulfillment in their lives, create great art, establish great societies or build good businesses.
Location: 116309

The characteristics of sudoku that make such an approach possible are: • There is one and only one solution, and when it is identified we know that we have found it. Objectives are clear and constant. • The play is not influenced by the responses of others to one’s moves. Interactions with others, if they are relevant at all, are limited and controllable or predictable. • There is a complete list of possible actions, and we know that all the potential actions we consider are in fact available to us. Even if we do not know what will happen in the future, we know the range of possibilities and can sensibly attach probabilities to them. The problem is closed. • The number of alternative ways of filling in the boxes, although running into many millions, is nevertheless sufficiently small that all can, at least in principle, be evaluated. Complexity, even if
Location: 117928

extensive, is bounded.
Location: 119066

The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment
10 highlights
---------------------------------
The beginning of freedom is the realization that you are not the possessing entity — the thinker.
Location: 73596

The moment you start watching the thinker, a higher level of consciousness becomes activated. You then begin to realize that there is a vast realm of intelligence beyond thought, that thought is only a tiny aspect of that intelligence. You also realize that all the things that truly matter — beauty, love, creativity, joy, inner peace — arise from beyond the mind. You begin to awaken.
Location: 73744

The thought then loses its power over you and quickly subsides, because you are no longer energizing the mind through identification with it. This is the beginning of the end of involuntary and compulsive thinking.
Location: 78445

One day you may catch yourself smiling at the voice in your head, as you would smile at the antics of a child. This means that you no longer take the content of your mind all that seriously,
Location: 83076

about 80 to 90 percent of most people’s thinking is not only repetitive and useless, but because of its dysfunctional and often negative nature, much of it is also harmful.
Location: 84064

Accept — then act. Whatever the present moment contains, accept it as if you had chosen it. Always work with it, not against it. Make it your friend and ally, not your enemy.
Location: 112672

The most common ego identifications have to do with possessions, the work you do, social status and recognition, knowledge and education, physical appearance, special abilities, relationships, personal and family history, belief systems, and often also political, nationalistic, racial, religious, and other collective identifications. None of these is you.
Location: 135393

The problems of the mind cannot be solved on the level of the mind. Once you have understood the basic dysfunction, there isn’t really much else that you need to learn or understand. Studying the complexities of the mind may make you a good psychologist, but doing so won’t take you beyond the mind, just as the study of madness isn’t enough to create sanity. You have already understood the basic mechanics of the unconscious state: identification with the mind, which creates a false self, the ego, as a substitute for your true self rooted in Being. You become as a “branch cut off from the vine,” as Jesus puts it.
Location: 137548

You become as a “branch cut off from the vine,” as Jesus puts it.
Location: 138107

The mind in itself is not dysfunctional. It is a wonderful tool. Dysfunction sets in when you seek your self in it and mistake it for who you are. It then becomes the egoic mind and takes over your whole life.
Location: 139479

The Principles of Product Development Flow: Second Generation Lean Product Development
202 highlights
---------------------------------
Product developers need to extract the underlying mechanisms of action that make these methods work. It is only by generalizing these principles that we can expand their application from a handful of isolated successes into a general approach that transforms the entire development process.
Location: 19380

Work is divided into mutually exclusive phases separated by gates. One phase must be complete before the next one can begin. For example, such processes typically require that all product requirements be defined before beginning design activities. The team appears to do this, and delivers complete product requirements to management at the gate review. Then, they are given approval to exit the requirement definition phase and to begin the product design phase. On its surface, this procedure appears quite sensible, and it seems to work.
Location: 19793

FIFO prioritization is almost never economically optimal in product development, because product development deals with high variability, nonrepetitive, nonhomogeneous flows. Different projects almost always have different delay costs, and they present different loads on our resources.
Location: 22114

If we combine the belief that variability is bad with the failure to correctly quantify economics, we will minimize variability by sacrificing other unquantified economic goals. We will create risk-averse development processes that strive to “do it right the first time.”
Location: 23845

When DIP is high, cycle times are long. When cycle times are long, innovation occurs so late that it becomes imitation.
Location: 29123

Second, we are blind to product development inventory because it is usually physically invisible. DIP is information, not physical objects. We do not see piles of DIP when we walk through the engineering department. In product development, our inventory is bits on a disk drive, and we have very big disk drives in product development.
Location: 29672

Executives coming to my product development classes report operating at 98.5 percent utilization in the precourse surveys. What will this do? Chapter 3 will explain why large queues form when processes with variability are operated at high levels of capacity utilization. In reality, the misguided pursuit of efficiency creates enormous costs in the unmeasured, invisible portion of the product development process, its queues.
Location: 32481

without variability, we cannot innovate. Product development produces the recipes for products, not the products themselves. If a design does not change, there can be no value-added. But, when we change a design, we introduce uncertainty and variability in outcomes. We cannot eliminate all variability without eliminating all value-added.
Location: 34048

But these 200 drawings were not completed in a single day. They may have been completed over a 10-week period. The first 20 drawings to be completed may have waited 9 weeks to be reviewed. What happened during these 9 weeks? If an engineer makes a bad assumption in one of the first 20 drawings, then that bad assumption will go unchallenged until the final review. Without feedback from a review, this bad assumption can be incorporated into 180 more drawings. By breaking drawing review into small batches, we improve quality, efficiency, and cycle time.
Location: 41024

The more detailed we made our plans, the longer our cycle times became.
Location: 43203

Most product developers do not understand the statistics of granular schedules. A granular timeline subdivides time intervals into very small buckets. When we do this, the coefficient of variation for each of these buckets becomes very high. This makes variance very high and conformance unlikely. Even worse, if we incentivize conformance, people will insert contingency reserves to prevent their tasks from missing the schedule. The more granular the schedule, the larger the schedule reserves. And these reserves aggregate into even longer timelines. The more we increase planning detail and the harder we try to incentivize performance, the worse our problem becomes.
Location: 43583

What is critically important is that these other domains do not achieve flow by eliminating variability; they have developed methods that achieve flow in the presence of high variability. As a result, these methods are extremely relevant to product developers.
Location: 46687

Flow-based Product Development suggests that our development processes can be both efficient and responsive in the presence of variability. To do this, we must make resources, people, and processes flexible. We can learn some lessons on how to do this from our factories, and even more lessons from telecommunications networks. In our factories, we create flexibility by paying more to workers who can work at more stations on a production line. We value flexibility, and we pay for it. In contrast, most product development organizations exclusively reward specialization.
Location: 47833

In general, it is best to delay the project with a low cost of delay. This suggests that we should not prioritize on the basis of project profitability, but rather on how this profitability is affected by delay.
Location: 49652

Product developers often avoid decentralized control because they are afraid decentralization will lead to chaos. I hope to offer a different view of decentralization. One of the most interesting examples of decentralizing control without losing alignment is the way the military deals with the uncertainty of warfare. We will examine their approach in Chapter 9 and consider how it can be applied in product development.
Location: 51373

For example, it observes that late design changes have higher costs than early design changes and prescribes front-loading problem solving. This ignores the fact that late changes can also create enormous economic value. The economic effect of a late change can only be evaluated by considering its complete economic impact.
Location: 53522

For example, it is suggested that if subsystem B depends on subsystem A, it would be better to sequence the design of A first. This logic optimizes efficiency as a proxy variable. When we consider overall economics, as we do in this book, we often reach different conclusions. For example, it may be better to develop both A and B simultaneously, despite the risk of inefficient rework, because parallel development can save cycle time.
Location: 61522

Unfortunately, our current orthodoxy views feedback as an element of an undesirable rework loop. It asserts that we should prevent the need for rework by having engineers design things right the first time. We will present a radically different view, suggesting that feedback is what permits us to operate our product development process effectively in a very noisy environment. Feedback allows us to efficiently adapt to unpredictability.
Location: 62733

By breaking the betting process into two steps, the overall bet produces a net gain of 45 cents. This added value occurs because 90 percent of the time, you will not purchase the second digit, because you already know you will not win.
Location: 64841

Should we delay the project by one month to be more innovative? Innovation is good. Fast time-to-market is also good. If we can justify a 1-month delay to increase innovation, what about 12 months, and what about 12 years? There is simply no way to compare things that lack a common unit of measure. The economic view solves this problem.
Location: 81933

Consider the following example. Unhappy with late deliveries, a project manager decides he can reduce variability by inserting a safety margin or buffer in his schedule. He reduces uncertainty in the schedule by committing to an 80 percent confidence schedule. But, what is the cost of this buffer? The project manager is actually trading cycle time for variability.
Location: 90892

We do not make a few, big, predictable trade-offs at the start of our development process. Instead, we make many small trade-offs, at random times, throughout our development process.
Location: 105517

It means we must explicitly measure, and shorten, the time it takes to make a decision. It follows that if most opportunities and obstacles are first visible to people at the lowest level of the organization, then this level should be able to make these decisions. This suggests a strategy of decentralized control, which we will examine in Chapter 9. Is this what we do today? Not even close. Instead of moving towards decentralization, many companies are centralizing control and decision making. They use massive phase reviews where unempowered teams must ask for permission to enter the next phase.
Location: 108467

The intrinsic elegance of this approach is that the superiors didn’t actually give up control over the decision. Instead, they recognized that they could still control the decision without participating in it.
Location: 116800

Instead of waiting for the “last responsible moment,” we can recognize that the cost of certain decisions can rise steeply past a certain point, or that the value created by waiting may have stopped increasing. The timing of economic choices should be based on their economics, not broad philosophical concepts like “front-loading” or “responsible deferral.”
Location: 122881

Let’s look at a more subtle example of marginal economics. A project which is currently 80 percent complete has two important features. One feature has met its objective, and the other has fallen short by 10 percent. Which one should the team work on? Most companies would work on the feature that has fallen short. They assume that achieving planned objectives maximizes economic outcomes. The correct economic choice is to work on the feature which has the greatest difference between marginal cost and marginal benefit. Interestingly, this is often the feature that has already met its objectives, since it is most likely to have additional unexploited opportunities for improvement. In contrast, the feature that has fallen short may have already exhausted all cheap opportunities for improvement.
Location: 125452

Each phase of clinical trials is more expensive than the last. Why do we break the screening process into a series of stages? At the end of each phase, we have better information. This information alters the conditional probability of success for the next phase. This information has clear economic value because it allows us to force early attrition of doomed products. This prevents these products from proceeding to expensive trials and thereby accruing costs that will later be written off. Information makes economic outcomes clearer. It lets us make better economic choices. It reduces uncertainty and this reduction in uncertainty has a quantifiable economic value.
Location: 129344

Most corporations give control over financial resources to people who worry about the economics of their choices.
Location: 137645

Few product developers are aware of the causal links between high capacity-utilization, queues, and poor economic performance.
Location: 146813

Second, queues increase the riskiness of a product development process. Queues increase the transit time through the product development pipeline. When the transit time goes up, we are more vulnerable to changes in customer preference, preemption by competitor product introductions, and shifts in underlying technology.
Location: 151288

queues raise the costs of our process. The more projects we have in process, the more projects we have to track and report status on. Even worse, we will ask for more progress reports per project because queues lead to long transit times.
Location: 152072

queues reduce quality by delaying feedback from downstream processes. If a programmer makes a bad assumption about a protocol and gets feedback one day later, she stops making this bad assumption.
Location: 152828

Queues delay feedback, and delayed feedback leads to higher costs. This feedback effect is orders of magnitude more important in product development than manufacturing because manufacturing work is inherently repetitive.
Location: 153164

queues have a negative psychological effect. They undermine motivation and initiative. When the next process will be ready to use our work product within an hour, we feel a sense of urgency. When the next process has a 4-week queue, we feel there is little value in hurrying to finish our work. After all, our work product will simply wait in queue. Widespread queues demotivate workers and undermine initiative.
Location: 153844

Knowing capacity utilization allows us to predict: The percent of time arriving work will find the resource busy. The average number of items in queue. The average number of items in the system. The percent of overall cycle time that is queue time. The ratio of cycle time to value-added time.
Location: 157627

Some nice examples of linked queues occur in traffic systems. At rush hour on the Los Angeles freeway system, stoplights operate at the freeway on-ramps. We hold arriving cars in this queue and release them at a regular cadence onto the highway. This conditions the flow arriving on the freeway and prevents us from injecting cars onto the freeway at highly variable rates. This, in turn, is important because highly variable arrivals generate what are called “shock waves” when freeways are congested. If a group of cars merges onto the freeway, this causes nearby cars to slow. The following cars react later and have to decelerate even more quickly. This, in turn, leads to an accordion-like pattern of turbulence in traffic flow. This turbulence can be reduced if the injection rate is conditioned by a metered queue at the on-ramp. The exit rate of this queue becomes the low-variability cadence of the stoplight, instead of the high-variability pattern of driver arrivals at the on-ramp. Of course, when there is no queue at the on-ramp, the injection rate onto the freeway will be identical to the arrival pattern at the on-ramp.
Location: 171028

The solution for a M/M/1/∞ queue is shown in Figure 3-8. The first term in this equation is the capacity we would need if there were no variation in arrival times or service times. The second term can be viewed as the excess capacity margin required to compensate for variation. We can see that the required margin is proportional to the cost of delay and inversely proportional to the cost of capacity. This should make sense. When delay cost is high, we prevent delays by having excess capacity. When capacity is expensive, we can afford less margin.
Location: 174464

Contrast this with the simpler qualitative approach. If we decide that “Queues are evil,” we will seek the smallest possible queue size. Our goal will be unaffected by changes in the economic environment. Approaching queues as a philosophical problem rather than a quantitative one decouples our solutions from economics. When economics change, our solutions will remain static.
Location: 175972

if two jobs take the same amount of time, it is better to service the one with the highest delay cost first. If two jobs have the same cost of delay, it is better to process the shortest job first.
Location: 178395

When we base priorities on economics, they tend to remain more stable than priorities based on opinions. Opinions can be changed by the last phone call received from a customer. In contrast, economic facts change less abruptly. The key to stable priorities is to link them to economic facts.
Location: 180400

Little’s Formula. It describes the relationship between wait time, queue size, and processing rate. It is named after the MIT professor John D. C. Little, who proved it in 1961.3 The formula states that average queue time will be equal to the average queue size divided by the average processing rate.
Location: 184595

Many supermarkets cross-train check stand operators to perform other tasks. These stores monitor the size of queues at check stands. As soon as they have more than three customers in line, they open up a new check stand. When the queues are cleared, they close the extra check stand. This is a highly effective way to provide quality of service in the face of uncertain demand.
Location: 190787

high-queue states do disproportionate damage. When there are 20 jobs in line, a 5-minute delay generates 100 minutes of delay time. When there are only two jobs in line, a 5-minute delay generates 10 minutes of delay time. Thus, queue size acts as a multiplier, increasing our delay cost.
Location: 197760

Instead, analysis resources are typically measured and incentivized on efficiency, which reinforces the queues. It makes more economic sense to measure analysis groups on response time than efficiency.
Location: 201350

it is common for purchasing to delay purchases to search for lower cost sources of supply. While this makes sense for large manufacturing purchases, it is often the wrong measure of performance for R&D support.
Location: 202432

Prototype shops are also a common location for queues. Such shops are specialized resources that service variable demand. They are commonly measured on efficiency and usually operate with limited excess capacity. This is a prescription for queues. This is a particularly dangerous place to have queues, because it occurs late in the development process. Even worse, slow prototyping leads to delayed feedback, an issue that we will cover in Chapter 8.
Location: 202869

Even outside tooling shops tend to have delays. Often, purchasing waits until complete information is available before they let outside shops begin work. Waiting for complete information improves efficiency, but it leads to queueing.
Location: 204780

Queues are caused by variability and high capacity utilization. Increasing capacity utilization increases queues exponentially. Increasing variability increases queues linearly. Most of the damage done by queues occurs when they are in high-queue states. These high-queue states can be very persistent. They must be corrected with decisive and quick responses.
Location: 205960

We can affect queues by the structure of our queueing systems. In particular, when we share a common queue for multiple servers, we can take advantage of variability pooling, a topic we cover in more detail in the next chapter.
Location: 206340

The optimum queue size occurs when we balance the cost of capacity against delay cost. Since this is a U-curve optimization, we can capture most of the benefits without finding a perfect answer. However, we must avoid high cost points on this U-curve, such as operating near 100 percent capacity utilization.
Location: 206587

The quest for low variability has marched under different banners over the years: do it right the first time, zero defects, repeatability, process maturity models, and Six Sigma. What these approaches have in common is the sweeping assertion that it is always
Location: 209903

Let’s start by examining the economic role of product development variability. Product development creates economic value by producing the recipes for products, information, not by creating physical products.
Location: 212160

In fact, we must introduce uncertainty to add value in product development. Risk-taking is central to value creation in product development.
Location: 212635

Let’s illustrate this with a simple example. What happens if we increase performance by adding a highly risky but marginally valuable feature? We increase the spread of the probability distribution, but our upside payoff changes very little. On the other hand, our downside can increase considerably. Under such circumstances, we will not increase economic value by adding the feature.
Location: 223449

An event with high probability has low information content. An event with low probability has high information content. We can use this quantified view of information to evaluate information-generating events such as tests. We can view the outcomes of such tests as messages bearing information from the physical world.
Location: 225075

Unfortunately, most product developers aim for much lower failure rates. As a result, they expend unnecessary time and money to obtain information. For example, if we test at a low level of integration and get a low failure rate, we should test at a higher level of integration. If our failure rate is too high, we should test at a lower level of integration. Either excessive or insufficient probability of failure reduces the efficiency with which we generate information.
Location: 226310

Unfortunately, most companies do a far better job of communicating their successes than their failures. They carefully document successes, but fail to document failures. This can cause them to repeat the same failures. Repeating the same failures is waste, because it generates no new information. Only new failures generate information.
Location: 227516

For example, let’s say we have nine project teams and nine manufacturing engineers. We could assign a single manufacturing engineer to each team. This would be a good approach if the demand for manufacturing engineering had very low variability. However, if the variability were high, it would be better to operate the nine manufacturing engineers as a single resource pool, combining the variable demand of all nine projects. This would reduce the variability by roughly a factor of three, leading to smaller queues and better response times.
Location: 231381

We also see the effect of variability pooling whenever we try to estimate the work content of a project. If we estimate the work content of 1,000 individual tasks, each individual estimate will have a high coefficient of variation. However, when we aggregate these estimates, there is less noise in our overall estimate than any of the individual estimates. This is one of the wonderful times in mathematics where, “Garbage in equals quality out.”
Location: 231950

The irony of this is that many companies try to reduce the risk of poor forecasts by taking more time to do a careful forecast. They insert more high-level reviews and more approval levels for their plans. Although this may slightly improve assumptions, it pushes out the planning horizon, leading to massive increases in uncertainty.
Location: 234964

But, let’s return to the example in Principle V1. What if we were interested in technology A, but we did not want to expose ourselves to the 50 percent chance of losing $15,000. How could we structure this choice to reduce this risk? As we mentioned, in statistics we call this one-time choice a Bernoulli trial. When we repeat a series of Bernoulli trials, the probability distribution of our outcome is called a binomial distribution. What happens to the mean and variance of a binomial distribution as we divide an experiment into a larger number of small trials? The mean increases faster than the standard deviation.4 If we break our experiment into a series of smaller experiments, we reduce its coefficient of variation. In fact, the coefficient of variation decreases proportional to the square root of the number of trials.
Location: 237500

as a software development organization moves towards daily build/test cycles, they increasingly routinize their process.
Location: 239782

We should be clear that reuse must still be justified economically. We may be tempted to reuse our vacuum tube radio design instead of adopting the uncertain new technology of transistors, but this would be an economic mistake. In this case, the economic benefits of the new technology outweigh the benefits of reduced variability. As always, we should make decisions on the basis of overall economics, rather than maximizing reuse, which is another proxy variable.
Location: 240833

in manufacturing, we might choose to cross-train workers from our assembly area to assist testers during periods of peak demand. Whenever the queue of work gets to a certain size, we shift more resources to the queue. This allows us to offset random increases in demand with compensating changes in capacity. Thus, the separate effects on the queue of changes in demand and capacity, will have a negative covariance. This reduces the average queue size in the presence of variable demand. We can use this same approach by cross-training product development personnel to perform the tasks of adjacent processes.
Location: 242580

A buffer converts uncertain earliness to certain lateness.
Location: 245486

When we alter the consequences of variability, we are changing the economic payoff-function, rather than the probability function. We can think of this payoff-function as having a “left side” and a “right side.” We can improve both sides. For example, we can decrease cost on the left side by quickly truncating a bad path. If a feature is much harder to implement than we expected, we can drop it from the product. We can also increase the payoff on the right side. For example, if a feature is easier to implement than we expected, we may choose to overachieve on this feature.
Location: 246843

Let’s say a programmer makes a bad assumption about a communication protocol in the code he is writing. The cost of this type of bad assumption depends on the frequency with which it occurs and the amount of economic damage it does. We can reduce both the frequency of this problem and its consequences by providing rapid feedback. If we provide programmers with test results in 24 hours instead of after 30 days, they will stop making the bad assumption, lowering the frequency of the problem. Rapid feedback also reduces the consequences of the defect. If feedback is slow, we will write a lot of dependent code before the problem is identified. All this code may have to be modified if we discover underlying assumptions were incorrect. Interestingly, these two beneficial effects can combine to produce order of magnitude reductions in the cost of variability.
Location: 249669

Just as variability can be driven into different performance parameters, it can be driven into different stages of a process. It is better to place variability in a process stage where the economic cost of variability is low, rather than where the economic cost is high.
Location: 255686

we have coupled the downstream variation of the landing process into cheaper upstream stages. Instead of letting planes circle in a holding pattern for varying amounts of time, we let them wait varying amounts of time to take off.
Location: 256682

When we permit a project to enter the pipeline, it begins accruing cost. Our investment in the project is perishable, and it is affected by the time it takes to pass through the pipeline. If we invest in market research only to have the product crawl forward slowly for 2 years, our market research will be 2 years out of date. We are better off holding this new product in a ready queue, than letting it enter our pipeline.
Location: 257119

As we shall see in Chapter 6, permitting too many active tasks leads to slow transit times. Slow transit times increase the chance we are working on old bugs. It is usually not productive to work on old bugs, since they may die of old age or irrelevance before we get around to fixing them.
Location: 258401

I am careful to say underutilize, because product developers have unconsciously made enormous improvements in batch size over the past few decades. In fact, many of the most important improvements in product development, such as concurrent engineering, rapid prototyping, and agile software methods, are recognizable as batch size reductions. However, because developers fail to recognize the underlying mechanism of action behind these improvements, they lose the chance to apply this principle much more broadly throughout their development processes.
Location: 263303

Sometimes the lower variability due to batch size reduction can completely eliminate a queue. For example, if we sent a 100-person engineering department to lunch at exactly the same time, they might complain about the queue in the cafeteria. If we assume this queue is caused by insufficient capacity, then we may be tempted to increase the size of the cafeteria.
Location: 267004

The third effect of batch size reduction is particularly important in product development: small batches accelerate feedback. In the stable, repetitive world of manufacturing, this feedback benefit occurs infrequently and is of minor economic importance. In product development, this feedback is continuous and extremely important economically. We constantly try new things and expose ourselves to the risk of failure.
Location: 267971

fast feedback also provides disproportionate economic benefits because the consequences of failures usually increase exponentially when we delay feedback. Each engineering decision acts as a predecessor for many subsequent decisions. The number of dependent decisions generally grows geometrically with time.
Location: 268804

It is not an accident that a packet switching network like the Internet breaks its messages into many small packets. Consider what would happen if we sent a 10 megabyte file as a single large packet and we had one error per million bytes. We would average 10 errors in our transmission. We would have one chance in 22,026 that the file would reach the destination without an error. In contrast, if we break this large file into 10,000 packets of 1,000 bytes apiece, there is only 1 chance in 1,000 that an individual packet will become corrupted. We will have to resend an average of 10 of the 10,000 packets, an overhead of 0.1 percent.
Location: 270368

It surprises many product developers to discover that it is large batches that increase overhead, not small batches. For example, consider what happens when we test software in large batches. This increases the average number of open bugs in the code. Why is this bad? If we have 300 open bugs, when we find bug number 301, we need to check to see if this bug duplicates any of the 300 previously reported bugs. If we only have 30 open bugs, then we must only check bug number 31 against 30 previously reported bugs.
Location: 272325

In engineering, it is very common that the local efficiency improvements due to large batches are completely wiped out by the added rework caused by delayed feedback.
Location: 275048

large batches dilute responsibility. If I am responsible for delivering one module of code in the next 5 days, I have no place to hide. If I am responsible for one of the 100 modules that are required for the next integration point 100 days from now, I feel much less urgency. After all, even if I am behind schedule, there appears to be plenty of time left before the integration point, and there are many other people who are more likely to get in trouble than I am.
Location: 276667

large batch sizes demotivate by delaying feedback. When engineers are experimenting with a new idea, rapid feedback is enormously energizing. Rapid feedback quickly supplies the positive reinforcement of success, and fast positive reinforcement always increases motivation.
Location: 277432

The damage done by large batches can become regenerative when a large batch project starts to acquire a life of its own. It becomes a death march where all participants know they are doomed, but no one has the power to stop.
Location: 279695

Have you had trouble buying a new piece of test equipment? Just show how it will benefit the “golden” project and you will get approval. Do you have a feature that nobody would let you implement? Find a way to get it into the requirements of the “golden” project. These large projects act as magnets attracting additional cost, scope, and risk. They inevitably become the black holes of product development, uncontrollably devouring resources.
Location: 280916

Economic Lot Size (ELS) equation.
Location: 286370

If it takes 24 hours to set up a test, we cannot test every 24 hours. We must invest in reducing transaction cost to enable the use of smaller batches.
Location: 290707

This fine-tuning principle is used extensively on the Internet. Traditional telephone service uses what is called a “circuit-switching” approach. When we make a phone call, we acquire the channel capacity for the full duration of our call. This capacity belongs to us until we hang up. In contrast, the Internet is a packet switching network. A message is broken into small packets, each packet is assigned a number, and the packets are routed on whatever routes are available to
Location: 295480

Working effectively with small batches requires that we reduce dependencies between the batches. If we want to start testing subsystems before the entire system is designed, we need to create independently testable subsystems.
Location: 296921

The Internet improves throughput using a similar strategy by making it possible to send packets independently. It assigns a specific sequence number to each packet, which enables us to reassemble the entire message independent of the sequence in which the packets arrive at their final destination.
Location: 297241

This illustrates the extremely important relationship between product architecture and development process design. Once a product developer realizes that small batches are desirable, they start adopting product architectures that permit work to flow in small, decoupled batches.
Location: 297833

Small modules have less complex interfaces and more potential applications. It is easier to reuse a capacitor, than it is to reuse a complex integrated circuit.
Location: 298689

In manufacturing, collapsing distances is one of the most powerful ways of enabling small transport batches. This is also true in product development. When we colocate development teams, we make it possible to communicate in small batches.
Location: 303412

In a traditional factory, we grouped all the lathes together and had a group of lathe operators supervised by a lead operator, who was an expert on turning operations.
Location: 304280

This optimized efficiency but forced us to use large transport batches. Now, we organize production lines around products and aim at achieving one-piece flow.
Location: 304448

good infrastructure permits different batches to be in different stages of completion. For example, if we wish to test subsystems before the entire system is ready, we need the testbeds to do this testing. This reduces dependency and coupling between batches. The infrastructure provides the scaffolding that permits subsystems to progress independently.
Location: 307128

By sequencing the high-risk batch first, we reduce the amount of accumulated investment that is exposed to the risk of failure.
Location: 309889

We could have reduced queues by doubling the size of the cafeteria. This is attacking the bottleneck. Instead, we decided to stagger lunch hours, which reduced batch size. Reducing batch size reduces variability, and with lower variability, we may find our existing capacity is already sufficient.
Location: 312662

Goldratt suggested letting the slowest Boy Scout, Herbie, walk at the head of the line. In my years as a scout leader, we did not use this logical and conceptually appealing approach. You see, this approach contains the embedded assumption that the hiking group can only hike in one large batch. There are times when this assumption is correct, such as when you have a shortage of adult leaders. However, in practice, it is more common to break the hiking group into two smaller batches.
Location: 314381

Excessive project scope easily leads to the self-reinforcing death spiral discussed in Principle B9. Long planning horizons lead to schedule slippage. When schedules slip, it changes the competitive environment that the product will confront, so marketing requests additional features.
Location: 318835

The entire project is conceived and funded as a single large batch proposal. Since this large proposal requests a large investment, risk is high. To control this high risk, sensible managers demand thorough analysis and careful justification. This large transaction cost biases people towards minimizing the number of transactions and maximizing transaction size. Since it takes almost equal effort to ask for a big bag of money as a small one, people prefer to ask for big bags of money.
Location: 319970

initial increments can be viewed as a way of buying information to create better plans for later stages. By funding in smaller increments, we make investment decisions at shorter time-horizons, with better information, and by putting
Location: 320582

Interestingly, the practice of working in one phase at a time is so devoid of common sense that engineers seldom follow it, even when it is required by their procedures. Almost all companies that claim to work in one phase at a time actually have an underground process that works out of phase.
Location: 322035

Most product development processes attempt to define 100 percent of requirements at the very beginning of the process. They try to identify all design inputs before they begin design. This makes the batch size of the handoff between requirement definition and design equal to 100 percent of the work product. Again, maximum theoretical batch size results in maximum theoretical cycle time. It places requirement definition on the critical path for the maximum possible time.
Location: 323431

Such an approach inherently leads to inferior designs because it breaks the feedback loop between design and specification.
Location: 323925

Design activities generate valuable information on the performance limits of our technologies and the cost impact of requested features. This information is vital for making optimal trade-offs between the cost and value of a feature. To get this information quickly, we must begin design before we finalize our specification.
Location: 324049

Project Planning It is common for people to try to prepare a complete and detailed plan for the project at the beginning of the project. This forces planning to be done at a long time-horizon, where forecasting is very difficult. This, in turn, leads to frequent and massive plan revisions. A better alternative is to do high-level planning for the entire project, but to limit detailed planning to a short time-horizon. High-level planning has lower variability, because grouped tasks benefit from the variability pooling effect, Principle V5. Detailed planning can only be done reliably when the time-horizon is short, benefiting from Principle V6.
Location: 324824

“walking down the road in the fog.”
Location: 325682

some companies have learned to release capital in smaller batches. For example, one company permits its design teams to use up to 10 percent of its authorized capital budget before design verification is complete. This puts little capital at risk, but still gives teams enough capital to keep long lead-time items off the critical path.
Location: 327374

Traditional drawing release processes release a drawing as a single unit. The drawing is either released or unreleased. If the drawing is released, we can trust everything on the drawing. If it is unreleased, we can trust nothing. When viewed from the perspective of batch size, this means that 100 percent of the information on the drawing is being released in a single batch. Since this is maximum theoretical batch size, it will lead to maximum theoretical cycle time. A better way to handle drawing releases is to freeze the critical information necessary for downstream processes first.
Location: 328418

When we set a limit on WIP, we create one positive effect and two negative ones. The positive effect is to reduce average cycle time. The first negative effect is that we permanently reject potentially valuable demand. The second negative effect is that we ultimately reduce our capacity utilization, because we have permanently lost the demand that we rejected
Location: 341920

This rate-matching principle lies at the heart of modern data communications networks. In a packet-switching network, we set a limit on the number of unacknowledged packets that may be in flight between the sender and receiver at any moment. This simple WIP constraint forces the sender to slow its transmission rate to match the rate at which good packets arrive at the receiver. As a result, we can reliably interconnect computers with massive differences in operating speed (eight to nine orders of magnitude) through channels that continuously experience unpredictable changes in throughput.
Location: 345115

If a simple kanban system was trying to limit the WIP between two processes to 30 items, it might use six pallets that could each hold five parts as physical kanbans. The downstream process would take parts off a pallet and when it was empty, send it back to the upstream process. This empty pallet would signal the upstream process to make more parts. The upstream process is not allowed to make parts unless it has an empty pallet to put them on. This sets an upper limit on the amount of WIP between the two processes.
Location: 348232

Toyota further enhances the effectiveness of this WIP constraint by cross-training workers at adjacent work stations. When the WIP constraint throttles the upstream process, this frees up capacity that can easily assist the downstream process. As we shall see later in this chapter, this approach of combining WIP constraints and flexibility in adjacent resources can also be used in product development.
Location: 351340

The simplest way to use a WIP constraint is to block all demand when WIP reaches its upper limit. This is the method used in the kanban system. It is also the method used in a standard telephone system, which provides a busy signal to users when no lines are available.
Location: 353885

If they used the sunk cost principle, Principle E17, they would recognize that they should only consider the incremental investment to finish the project compared to its return. Instead of killing projects, many companies mistakenly starve them for resources, barely keeping them alive. This creates the legendary zombie projects—the unliving and the undead. They are not good enough to get sufficient resources, but they are not bad enough to kill. Zombie projects destroy flow. Kill the zombies!
Location: 356395

A smaller batch size approach to WIP purging is to shed requirements during periods of congestion. The underlying logic is that the economic cost of retaining a requirement rises during periods of congestion. This occurs because the delay cost generated by a requirement rises when it blocks a larger queue of waiting work. During such periods, it makes economic sense to drop requirements that have marginal economic benefits. We get a high payoff from such requirement relief, because we are already operating on the steep section of the queueing curve, where a small decrease in loading leads to a large savings in cycle time.
Location: 357132

We do so by loosely coupling these elements to the rest of the system, so that we can cut them loose quickly.
Location: 358143

One of the biggest advantages of these three demand-focused approaches, demand blocking, WIP purging, and flexible requirements, is the speed with which they can be executed. In contrast, supply-focused approaches, which reduce WIP by adding capacity, often have longer response times.
Location: 359438

an expert on the critical path can be supplemented with a resource that is 20 percent as productive, and it will still have a huge impact on the queue.
Location: 360909

If we wish to use such resources to destroy emerging queues, it is critical that we load them to less-than-full utilization. If they are heavily utilized, they will not be able to respond quickly.
Location: 364371

Another common constraint is to limit the amount of detailed planning to a 60-day horizon. Detailed planning is very perishable, and this perishability increases with the distance to the planning horizon. We can dramatically reduce the wasted effort in planning by limiting our detailed planning to a short time-horizon. At longer time-horizons, we do higher-level plans which aggregate many activities into higher-level milestones. These higher-level milestones become more reliable, because they benefit from the effect of variability pooling, Principle V5.
Location: 370344

Alternatively, we can create a process that automatically raises the priority class of a job depending on its age in the queue. This rule-based approach can be decentralized and automated. This approach is used in some computer operating systems which will raise the priority level of a job after it has spent a certain amount of time in a lower priority class.
Location: 375208

We can use similar approaches in product development. For example, the approval criteria for initiating a new project can be made more demanding as congestion gets heavier. Rather than completely filling up our R&D portfolio and then blocking jobs, we can demand higher ROIs when we start approaching the limits of capacity.
Location: 378148

Some work in product development can behave like the perfect gas of physics. It expands to fill the container, no matter what size of the container.
Location: 383370

A second strategy for blocking task expansion is to terminate a task when we reach the point of diminishing returns.
Location: 384408

Inventory in product development is information, and information is usually invisible. To manage this information effectively, we must make it visible. We can do this by using physical artifacts as tokens to represent this invisible inventory. The most common way to do this is to use white boards and yellow sticky notes. These notes are progressively moved from one section of a white board to another. With such a system, we can easily see how much work is in any stage of the process. We can also manage differential flows with this approach by using different color sticky notes for different classes of work.
Location: 388229

Correct sizing of highways is important because this reduces congestion. This is a proactive long-term choice that must be made before the morning traffic jam occurs. However, correct sizing of highways is not sufficient to maintain flow. Cars break down unpredictably, which reduces capacity and leads to congestion. It is not economical to provide highways with so much overcapacity that they can maintain flow despite unpredictable breakdowns. It is more cost-effective to clear breakdowns within a certain amount of time. We use capacity planning to deal with the portion of the problem that is forecastable. Yet, we recognize that some aspects of the problem cannot be forecast. We need to react to them.
Location: 389854

Telecommunications networks are based on fundamentally different assumptions than manufacturing processes. They assume variability is inherent to the problem and adopt flow control approaches that are robust in the presence of variability. These network-based approaches are well-suited to the natural variability of product development processes.
Location: 395463

This parabolic curve for throughput, originally observed by Bruce Greenshields in 1934, has interesting implications. It shows that throughput is low at both extremes: maximum density and maximum speed. If we wish to maximize throughput, we must operate at the top of the parabola.1
Location: 397250

Large queues increase the incentive to expedite jobs. But, when we move one job ahead of another by expediting, we interrupt work and decrease our throughput. This lower throughput, in turn, further increases queues, cycle time, and expediting. We end up with a factory with both very high utilization and significant drops in output.
Location: 402961

consider how Disneyland provides congestion information to its guests. Do they communicate queue size, telling guests that there are 500 people in line? No. Queue size doesn’t help if you don’t know the processing rate. Instead, Disneyland displays expected flow time, telling guests that it will take 30 minutes to get to the head of the line.
Location: 407371

When a project places load on a resource, the overall economic cost of this load depends on the degree of congestion at the resource. We would like the decision maker to feel the extra cost of loading a congested process.
Location: 408678

Cadence is the use of a regular, predictable rhythm within a process. This rhythm transforms unpredictable events into predictable events. It plays an important role in preventing variability from accumulating in a sequential process.
Location: 410040

The benefit of periodic resynchronization is a system-level effect. In our bus problem, if we choose to optimize the local performance of a single bus, we would let that bus travel ahead of schedule. After all, stopped buses do not accomplish the goal of moving passengers. However, doing so would let the fast bus desynchronize the entire system because of feedback effects. What is optimal for a subsystem is not always optimal for the system.
Location: 413953

The company chooses to accept variability in the content of the prototype to prevent variability in its timing.
Location: 424788

There is an alternative: scheduling reviews at regular time intervals. For example, Project A may be reviewed on the first Monday of every month. Whatever is available to be reviewed at this date is reviewed. The strength of this approach is that review dates can be predicted months in advance. Everyone knows precisely when the review will occur. If the program experiences a problem, the review occurs anyway. In contrast, with a scope-based approach, programs with slippage are reviewed less frequently than programs that are on time.
Location: 426835

This leads to increased innovation because fast feedback enables teams to truncate an unproductive path quickly.
Location: 428570

A less obvious advantage of this approach was that team business was always top priority during this 1-hour window. The team could get their high-priority actions serviced within 24 hours. Under the old shared-resource approach, project business was combined in a FIFO queue with all other purchasing business. Since this was a 2-week queue, it would usually take 2 weeks to get a job serviced.
Location: 429353

Prototype Part Production One computer company allowed prototype parts to be run for 1 hour per day on its production line. This created a virtual factory within their factory. During this 1-hour time window, prototype parts had the highest priority. Since this time window was predictable, engineers knew exactly when they could access this resource.
Location: 431213

In a synchronous circuit, we use a clock pulse to ensure all gates change state at the same time. This prevents timing errors from accumulating. In an asynchronous circuit, we pass the signal to the next gate as soon as it arrives. This reduces delays, but it permits timing errors to accumulate. In general, asynchronous circuits are faster, but synchronous circuits are more stable.
Location: 435173

Aware of these problems, the company implemented a synchronous review process. All reviewers met at the same time and the originator of the change only had to respond to a single review. To reduce transaction overhead, these reviews were done weekly, at a predictable time.
Location: 440171

The lower graph shows the effect of processing the longest job first, a 3–2–1 sequence. As you can see, this has a larger black area and, thus, a larger delay cost.
Location: 447145

If there is a vibration analysis due to arrive in the near future, it is better to briefly hold the Ph.D. idle, than it is to block this scarce resource with a routine stress analysis.
Location: 458673

The Internet uses many concepts that are relevant to product developers. They suggest ways that we could design a product development process that could achieve high flow in the presence of variability.
Location: 459984

Contrast this with the rigid, least-common-denominator thinking typically found in product development processes. Too often companies create process maps that show all projects visiting all nodes in exactly the same sequence. This makes no economic sense. Projects should only visit nodes that add economic value. They should visit these nodes in the specific sequence that adds economic value most cost-effectively. Thus, the nodes traversed, and the sequence in which they are visited should always be an economic choice.
Location: 460820

Today, most product development processes are guilty of one-dimensional thinking. They use the mental model of a value stream. A raindrop falls down on the top of the mountain, and it flows towards the ocean sequentially, traversing every point between the two. It must leave one point to arrive at the next. This is a great model for physical objects, and a silly one for information. Information is the work content of product development.
Location: 461792

This network-centric view has clear implications for development process design. It implies that it is incorrect to standardize the top-level process map; this is precisely where we need flexibility. Instead, we should standardize the modules, or nodes, that make up the development network.
Location: 463441

Flexibility in routing comes from having preplanned alternate routes. We need to consciously develop alternate routes around likely points of congestion. It is important to recognize that these alternate routes may be more expensive than the preferred route when congestion is low. They only become lower cost when congestion rises within the network.
Location: 466342

These alternative routes must be maintained open and ready to use. A common mistake is to only use the alternate route for peak-shaving during periods of heavy demand. This creates an uneven flow to the alternate route. Instead, it is usually better to maintain a trickle flow of work through the alternate route, even when the primary route is under-utilized.4
Location: 466713

This small flow should be viewed as an insurance premium that we pay in order to have a backup route available at short notice.
Location: 467130

Companies inevitably feel they can computerize this whiteboard, however, they almost always create a more elegant but less useful system.
Location: 473689

If we plan to jettison requirements to hold schedules, we should decide which requirements are nonessential in advance.
Location: 474689

Naval ships use a preplanned system, and they constantly drill to improve the response time of this system. The fire-fighting teams are assigned in advance and equipment is pre-positioned in strategic locations. Sailors do not fight fire by randomly swarming a fire with everyone who is available, the way 5-year-olds swarm a soccer ball.
Location: 476410

They assume decentralized resources will always lead to faster response time. This is often the case, but we must remember that decentralized resources fail to exploit the principle of variability pooling, Principle V5. We can service random demand with less queueing if we aggregate this demand and serve it with a shared resource. The greater the variation in the demand, the more useful this approach.
Location: 477748

This concentration of fire is critical to success. It is achieved by combining both centralized and decentralized resources. The locally controlled resources of the attacking unit are supplemented with centralized heavy artillery and centralized close air support. If these centralized resources were dispersed to individual units, it would be much harder to achieve the concentration of fire necessary for success.
Location: 479506

If we load centralized resources to high levels of capacity utilization, they will have queues and slow response times. If we measure centralized resources on their efficiency, they will operate at high levels of capacity utilization. Never assume that centralized resources automatically lead to poor response time.
Location: 480259

Instead, find out which incentives and policies are causing poor response time and correct them.
Location: 480583

A little rudder early is better than a lot of rudder late.
Location: 486083

Their views are shaped by the economics of manufacturing, where payoff-functions have the inverted U-curve shape as shown in Figure 8-1.1 In the presence of such payoff-functions, it is appropriate to use feedback to reduce variation, since we make more money by staying near the top of the inverted U-curve.
Location: 487213

In contrast, if he discovered a task had not started on time, he had many options. He could assign new resources, shift priorities, or alter constraints on the project. He believed that early interventions were much more economically efficient.
Location: 495353

In product development, we continually get better information, information that makes it desirable to reevaluate and shift our goals. When goals are dynamic, we need different control systems. If we have stable goals, we try to prevent deviations, often by increasing inertia and avoiding risk. If we have dynamic goals, we try to quickly correct deviations, often by decreasing inertia.
Location: 500427

We see this distinction clearly in military fire control systems. Such systems deal with two extremely different problems. Some targets are geographically stable. If we are trying to blow up a building, we use a missile that is relatively slow, heavy, and one that goes precisely where it is told to go. This approach works because there is no uncertainty in the future position of the building.
Location: 500834

Other targets move. We cannot accurately predict the future position of a maneuvering jet fighter. To shoot it down, we use a heat-seeking missile like an AIM-9 Sidewinder. This missile is lightweight, fast, and not very precise. It simply relentlessly follows the target, continuously reducing the gap between its position and the target position.
Location: 501249

What may be less obvious is that fast feedback also increases the efficiency with which we generate information and learn new things. It does this by compressing the time between cause and effect.
Location: 507282

It is worth noting that Team New Zealand explicitly invested in a second boat to create this superior test environment. It is common that we must invest in creating a superior development environment in order to extract the smaller signals that come with fast feedback.
Location: 508600

As anyone who has ever purchased a bathroom scale as a method of losing weight is aware, what gets measured does not necessarily get done.
Location: 509888

We don’t need long planning horizons when we have a short turning radius.
Location: 510253

Whenever we have a short turning radius and a quick reaction time, we can proceed safely at a higher speed.
Location: 511218

In product development, we need to quickly apply adequate resources to redirect programs. Organizations operating at 100 percent capacity utilization usually apply too little resources, too late, to get a quick change in direction.
Location: 512452

At any given processing rate, small batches will reach downstream processes faster, and they will trigger faster feedback.
Location: 513362

One way to reduce noise is to systematically reduce external sources of noise. For example, when Team New Zealand designed the yacht that won the America’s Cup, they needed to detect small changes in the performance of their design. In addition to racing two boats at the same time, they deliberately chose a test course with consistent steady winds. By reducing the external noise sources, they were able to reliably detect smaller performance changes in their design.
Location: 515794

We can make control systems both faster and more efficient by controlling decisions without participating in them.
Location: 516487

This controls outcomes without delaying decisions.
Location: 516683

Local feedback loops are inherently faster than global feedback loops. It simply takes longer for a control signal to propagate through a larger system. As
Location: 518629

The Relief Valve Principle: Have a clear, predetermined relief valve. A key part of control system design is selecting the action that will be taken in response to the control signal. As we discussed in Principle V14, we can reduce the economic effect of variability by substituting variability in a cheap measure of performance for variability in an expensive measure of performance.
Location: 521605

We use this strategy when sailing a boat. A small gust of wind is absorbed by easing off the helm, slacking the sails, and shifting weight of the crew. A sustained increase in wind requires that we reduce the amount of sail exposed to the wind.
Location: 525046

Physical proximity enables small transport batches. This is as true with human systems as it is with manufacturing and engineering systems. When we put people at adjacent desks, it takes less effort to communicate. As this transaction cost drops, people communicate in many small and frequent batches instead of in a few large batches. People address issues immediately instead of queueing them up for a weekly meeting. This accelerates feedback.
Location: 531203

The human brain makes attributions of causality when there is a short elapsed time between cause and effect. If we push a button and a light goes on quickly, we assume that pushing the button made the light go on.7 If we push a button and it takes 5 seconds for the light to go on, we assume that the button did not turn on the light.
Location: 533440

Instead of being the victim of a vast monolithic system, they become aware of a subdomain where they have power and influence.
Location: 534116

The scarcest resource is always time. Our organization decodes what is important to us by how we spend our time. Allocating personal time to a program or project is the single most effective way to communicate its importance. This is as true in business as it is in raising a child.
Location: 539759

In the past, you may have been told that the key to economic success is efficiency. If you believe this, you will focus on metrics like capacity utilization, operating your development process at high rates of utilization. In the past, you may have been told that the key to economic success is conformance to plan. If you believe this, you will focus on preventing and correcting deviations from plan. You would spend heavily to overcome unexpected obstacles and ignore emergent opportunities. I would suggest that both of these popular beliefs are fundamentally wrong. I believe that the key to economic success is making good economic choices with the freshest possible information. When this information changes, the correct choice may also change.
Location: 541063

Figure 8-6 summarizes the metrics that follow logically from the principles of this book.
Location: 542417

This does not mean that there is no role for capacity utilization as metric. It is simply a better metric for long-term planning than for day-to-day control.
Location: 551434

the modern military relies upon the initiative of subordinates. It focuses on responding to a fluid battlefield, rather than executing a predetermined plan. It views war as a domain of inherent uncertainty, where the side that can best exploit uncertainty will win.
Location: 558690

They do not believe that all obstacles should be overpowered. Instead, they frequently bypass obstacles by leaving behind a small force to contain them. They plan to quickly exploit unforeseen opportunities and hold sufficient forces in reserve to do this.
Location: 559846

I will emphasize the importance of decentralized control. I push you in this direction because most product development organizations are moving in the opposite direction, towards centralization.
Location: 564943

How can we quickly solve problems that age poorly? How can we seize opportunities that are fleeting? We need to decentralize control. And decentralizing control does not simply mean decentralizing responsibility. We need to decentralize the authority to act, and pre-position sufficient resources to make this action meaningful.
Location: 567000

Opportunism also adds enormous value in product development. As we progress, we may discover that a feature is valued by 10 times fewer customers and that it will require 10 times more effort to execute. A good process will recognize that this feature no longer makes economic sense. Rather than battering down this obstacle, we will bypass it.
Location: 574513

Some development organizations use “tiger teams” that are assembled from experienced and highly productive people. These teams are brought to bear when a program gets in unexpected and severe trouble. Yet, when there is no crisis, these team members do not sit idle; they work at their normal day jobs. Such resources can be brought to bear quite quickly if this is planned in advance.
Location: 577011

Thus, when military force is being focused, we subordinate all other activities to the main objective. This is simply a recognition that combat effects are not linearly proportional to effort. We exploit this nonlinearity by distributing our resources unequally.
Location: 580035

Sometimes we won’t know where the greatest leverage will lie until development is underway. Therefore, we need to dynamically reallocate resources to produce a compelling advantage on a handful of key attributes, not a modest advantage in all areas. As in warfare, alignment in product development produces disproportionate effects.
Location: 580623

In maneuver warfare, a key tool for creating alignment is a mission, and this mission is communicated using “mission orders.” Observers unfamiliar with maneuver warfare might think that a mission would tell a unit what to do, when to do it by, what resources it should use, and by what concept of operations this mission should be accomplished. All this seems quite logical, but it is the polar opposite of how mission orders actually work.
Location: 581221

“If you are going to worry about it, I won’t.”
Location: 584795

In many years of doing market research, I have consistently found that only a small set of product attributes truly drive success. While the customer may be able to identify 200 features and articulately explain what they want, only four to six of these features are actually capable of shifting preference from one brand to another.
Location: 586086

air combat consists of time-competitive decision cycles, and that the side that could close this decision loop most quickly would progressively gain an increasingly superior position. Ultimately, they would attain a firing position from which they could kill the other plane.
Location: 589310

In product development, we can change direction more quickly when we have a small team of highly skilled people instead of a large team. We can change direction more quickly when we have a product with a streamlined feature set, instead of one that is bloated with minor features. We can change direction more quickly when we have reserve capacity in our resources. It is very difficult to apply an extra burst of effort when people are already working 100 hours per week.
Location: 590438

They do not permit the uncertainty of color preference to permeate the entire design.
Location: 591462

The Marines solve this problem with peer-to-peer communications. They achieve this with both explicit and implicit lateral communications. The explicit communications are achieved with face-to-face and voice communications. The implicit communications are achieved with doctrine and training. Marines can predict how other Marines will act in similar situations with a surprising degree of accuracy. They can make this prediction because they have common beliefs about the best way to fight, and they have trained extensively with their peers.
Location: 591900

This maneuver warfare approach is quite different from that of many product development organizations. Such organizations typically try to achieve control by creating detailed plans and project management offices to manage these plans. The continuous peer-to-peer communications of a colocated team is far more effective at responding to uncertainty than a centralized project management organization.
Location: 593174

the Marines believe in making early contact with opposing forces. They do this to reduce uncertainty with regard to the composition and disposition of enemy forces.
Location: 598354

In product development, our opposing forces are the market and technical risks that must be overcome during the project. To dispose of these risks, projects must do more than assess them. Projects must apply meaningful effort to judge how severe the risks are and whether they can be overcome. There is no substitute for moving to a quick proof-of-concept. There is no substitute for early market feedback. It is critical to focus these early efforts on zones of high technical or market risk.
Location: 598855

This focused approach is very different from doing a systematic top-down design of the entire system. Such top-down approaches appear logical, but they rarely resolve risks rapidly enough.
Location: 599368

There is no additional price for premium service from internal support groups, so all users request premium service. This creates infinite demand for premium service and forces us to allocate this service. To deconflict projects, we elevate the decision to a management level above that of the project. Thus, our lack of pricing mechanisms pushes decisions up to high management levels and adds delays.
Location: 604839

they consider inaction and lack of decisiveness to be much more dangerous than making a bad decision. An imperfect decision executed rapidly is far better than a perfect decision that is implemented late. They believe that one of the biggest mistakes a leader could make is to stifle initiative.
Location: 607407

Pyramids Are Tombs
12 highlights
---------------------------------
In most top-down hierarchies, in order to get something accomplished, a project must go “up the pyramid” for approval at each major stage.
Location: 123963

The higher you are on the pyramid, the further you are from the realities of the front lines. So
Location: 124856

The actual architects of the project are often demoralized by the changes made to their work as it scales the pyramid. And projects are often slowed to the speed of a glacier!
Location: 125475

ASAP – busy schedules and relative importance of tasks render this acronym almost meaningless. Best to agree upon a specific date and time.
Location: 161158

Sold – don’t use “we sold it to the client.” Better to say, something like, “We agreed on the concept.”
Location: 162411

The way we address these situations is to operate with the understanding that we hire only adults. Meaning, our associates must be smart and aware
Location: 169719

Ours is not piecework done on an assembly line. We virtually never produce something exactly the same way twice. Things change. We get better at what we’re doing. Every job is a custom job. We’re always thinking. Our clients pay us for our brand-building, sales-generating ideas. Who knows when these ideas may appear?
Location: 172511

 
Location: 187305

Top-down, command-and-control models use policies to control individual action. They assume that management can write policy and workers will know and adhere to all policy. They condition their employees to be subservient executers of work orders handed down the pyramid, and they most often do not empower them to make decisions that they’re most
Location: 269782

• Establish the company’s vision and continually confirm buy-in • Ensure that qualified associates are recruited and properly deployed • Ensure that associates are committed to the philosophies of continual feedback • Provide the resources for these people to deliver excellent
Location: 276378

“measure twice, cut once.”
Location: 335956

“Success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue … as the unintended side effect of one’s personal dedication to a cause greater than oneself.” Viktor Frankl
Location: 455748

Robinson Crusoe
1 highlights
---------------------------------
He told me it was only men of desperate fortunes on the one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these things were all either too far above me, or too far below me; and that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had found, by long experience, was the best state in the world the most suited to human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me I might judge of the happiness of this
Location: 16444

Saltwater Buddha: A Surfer's Quest to Find Zen on the Sea
5 highlights
---------------------------------
“What is more malleable is always superior over that which is immovable. This is the principle of controlling things by going along with them, of mastery through adaptation.”
Location: 166394

Full fathom five thy father lies; Of his bones are coral made; Those are pearls that were his eyes; Nothing of him that doth fade But doth suffer a sea-change Into something rich and strange
Location: 171946

The irony of it was that most of the people there considered surfing a religious experience and that their religious experience was being ruined by all the others surfing for the same reason.
Location: 186054

THE BUDDHA UNDERSTOOD this problem of attaching to methodology, even though he also took great care to hone the methodology he did teach. He warned his students about engaging in unproductive practices that were all the rage in India at the time: rubbing your body in ash, worshiping fire, having sex with skulls. (I’m not sure how popular that last bit was, but it was popular enough to make it into the Buddhist rulebook.) But then he went further: He said even his own teachings were not to be taken as Ultimate Truth. He asked his students not to worship him like a god or make statues of him. He said that his teachings, to borrow a Zen phrase from centuries later, were merely a finger pointing at the moon, not the thing itself.
Location: 241012

I am not what I think I am. I just am.
Location: 332298

Shop Class as Soulcraft: An Inquiry into the Value of Work
38 highlights
---------------------------------
Sears catalogues included blown-up parts diagrams and conceptual schematics for all appliances
Location: 7197

Seeing a motorcycle about to leave my shop under its own power, several days after arriving in the back of a pickup truck, I suddenly don’t feel tired, even though I’ve been standing on a concrete floor all day.
Location: 11088

Compared to any real craftsman, my own skills are execrable, so I have no basis for talking about the higher spirituality that is alleged to arise from a perfectly fit mortise or whatever.
Location: 14049

We want to feel that our world is intelligible, so we can be responsible for it.
Location: 18380

“We have a generation of students that can answer questions on standardized tests, know factoids, but they can’t do anything,” according to Jim Aschwanden, executive director of the California Agricultural Teachers’ Association.2 Meanwhile, people in the trades are constantly howling about their inability to find workers.
Location: 23237

The effects of my work were visible for all to see, so my competence was real for others as well; it had a social currency.
Location: 27418

The satisfactions of manifesting oneself concretely in the world through manual competence have been known to make a man quiet and easy. They seem to relieve him of the felt need to offer chattering interpretations of himself to vindicate his worth.
Location: 29052

The repairman has to begin each job by getting outside his own head and noticing things; he has to look carefully and listen to the ailing machine.
Location: 32674

Yet this solipsistic ideal doesn’t gibe perfectly with the history of science. For in fact, in areas of well-developed craft practices, technological developments typically preceded and gave rise to advances in scientific understanding, not vice versa. The steam engine is a good example.
Location: 42976

The success of the steam engine contributed to the development of what we now call classical thermodynamics.
Location: 43522

In fact, this is an illustrative example of a more general idea—the difficulty of formalizing, in purely mathematical terms, what it means to produce a “realistic” (and not merely technically correct) solution to an algorithmic problem derived from human practice.
Location: 46065

This imagining relies on a stock mental library, not of natural kinds or structures, like that of the surgeon, but rather the functional kinds of an internal combustion engine, their various interpretations by different manufacturers, and their proclivities for failure. You also develop a library of sounds and smells and feels.
Location: 47845

the attractiveness of any hypothesis is determined in part by physical circumstances that have no logical connection to the diagnostic problem at hand, but a strong pragmatic bearing on
Location: 49688

it (kind of like origami).
Location: 49874

let us publicly recognize a yeoman aristocracy: those who gain real knowledge of real things, the sort we all depend on every day.
Location: 61131

according to Taylor, “All possible brain work should be removed from the shop and centered in the planning or laying-out department.
Location: 72594

“full possibilities” of his system “will not have been realized until almost all of the machines in the shop are run by men who are of smaller caliber and attainments, and who are therefore cheaper than those required under the old system.”4
Location: 73322

With its reverence for neutral process, liberalism is, by design, a politics of irresponsibility. This begins with the best of intentions—securing our liberties against the abuse of power—but
Location: 83932

has become a kind of monster that feeds on individual agency,
Location: 84128

The truth, of course, is that creativity is a by-product of mastery of the sort that is cultivated through long practice.
Location: 95379

With its blanket presumption of irresponsibility, the infrared faucet doesn’t merely respond to this fact, it installs it, giving it the status of normalcy. There is a kind of infantilization at work, and it offends the spirited personality.
Location: 103467

costs. How fast do you want to spend?”)
Location: 209582

basically says, check your economic logic at the door or don’t come in, because I can’t answer to two masters.
Location: 209698

The popularity of Dilbert, The Office, and any number of other pop-culture windows on cubicle life attests to the dark absurdism with which many Americans have come to view their white-collar work. Absurdity is good for comedy, but bad as a way of life. It usually indicates that somewhere beneath the threshold of official notice fester contradictions that, if commonly admitted, would bring on some kind of crisis.
Location: 224404

But in the last thirty years American businesses have shifted their focus from the production of goods (now done elsewhere) to the projection of brands, that is, states of mind in the consumer, and this shift finds its correlate in the production of mentalities in workers.
Location: 226368

management books are a subcategory of self-help books, and that adopting them as one’s guide may lead one into “an inquisitorial morass of motive and self-accountability,” to borrow a phrase.3 Throughout this literature one finds an imperative for the manager to care, and to sincerely hold forth to his subordinates the possibility of personal transformation. He is not so much a boss as a life coach.
Location: 228206

I suppose it was fairly free to set standards as it pleased, and may have calibrated the production quota, and corresponding quality, to some threshold of “good enough,” beneath which the user walks away in disgust.
Location: 241598

Recurring purchases, after all, may continue even when the alignment of interests between producer and consumer is only partial, or even accompanied by a felt antagonism. Frequently we come to hate things that we nonetheless continue to depend on (like Windows).
Location: 241872

Rather, authority is embodied in the persons with whom one has working relationships up and down the hierarchy. One’s career depends entirely on these personal relationships, in part because the criteria of evaluation are ambiguous. As a result, managers have to spend a good part of the day “managing what other people think of them.” With a sense of being on probation that never ends, managers feel “constantly vulnerable and anxious, acutely aware of the likelihood at any time of an organizational upheaval which could overturn their plans and possibly damage their careers fatally,” as Craig Calhoun writes in his review of Jackall’s book.9 It is a “prospect of more or less arbitrary disaster.”
Location: 247241

The individual feels that, alone, he is without any effect.
Location: 281305

The difference is that on such a crew, you have grounds for knowing your own worth independently of others, and it is the same grounds on which others will make their judgments. Either you can bend conduit or you can’t, and this is plain. So there is less reason to manage appearances. There is a real freedom of speech on a job site, which reverberates outward and sustains a wider liberality. You can tell dirty jokes. Where there is real work being done, the order of things isn’t quite so fragile.
Location: 282221

When self-esteem is artificially generated, it becomes more easily manipulable, a product of social technique rather than a secure possession of one’s own based on accomplishments. Psychologists find a positive correlation between repeated praise and “shorter task persistence, more eye-checking with the teacher, and inflected speech such that answers have the intonation of questions.”
Location: 285091

On a crew, skill becomes the basis for a circle of mutual regard among those who recognize one another as peers, even across disciplines.
Location: 287603

It is by having hands that man is the most intelligent of animals.
Location: 288468

The basic idea of tacit knowledge is that we know more than we can say, and certainly more than we can specify in a formulaic way.
Location: 302338

These remarks highlight an important feature of those practices that entail skilled and active engagement: one’s attention is focused on standards intrinsic to the practice, rather than external goods that may be won through the practice, typically money or recognition. Can this distinction between internal and external goods inform our understanding of work?
Location: 325013

For the neo-Darwinian, the frolicking of the dolphin is assumed to have some survival value, either for the preservation of the individual or for the passing on of its genes. I suspect that if you were to ask a dolphin about this, he would say it is backward: he lives in order to frolic, he doesn’t frolic in order to live. This is the Aristotelian view, precisely. Such activities are experienced as intrinsically good. They contain their end within themselves; they enact that end, in “real time,” as we now say.
Location: 347398

animals begin with a desired effect and discover a sufficing instrument, whereas we are capable of viewing everything as a potential instrument and imagining all the effects to which it could potentially give rise, corresponding to wildly different ends.
Location: 348420

The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail-but Some Don't
79 highlights
---------------------------------
There was “nothing new under the sun,” as the beautiful Bible verses in Ecclesiastes put it—not so much because everything had been discovered but because everything would be forgotten.6
Location: 12852

men may construe things after their fashion / Clean from the purpose of the things themselves,” Shakespeare warns us through the voice of Cicero—good advice for anyone seeking to pluck through their newfound wealth of information.
Location: 18862

The words predict and forecast are largely used interchangeably today, but in Shakespeare’s time, they meant different things. A prediction was what the soothsayer told you; a forecast was something more like Cassius’s idea.
Location: 19890

Before we demand more of our data, we need to demand more of ourselves.
Location: 29633

Weather forecasting, which also involves a melding of human judgment and computer power, is one of them. Meteorologists have a bad reputation, but they have made remarkable progress, being able to forecast the landfall position of a hurricane three times more accurately than they were a quarter century ago.
Location: 32006

Lacking a proper theory for how terrorists might behave, we were blind to the data and the attacks were an “unknown unknown” to us.
Location: 33648

“Recognizing objects in difficult situations means generalizing.
Location: 37911

The problem, Poggio says, is that these evolutionary instincts sometimes lead us to see patterns when there are none there. “People have been doing that all the time,” Poggio said. “Finding patterns in random noise.”
Location: 38160

Unless we work actively to become aware of the biases we introduce, the returns to additional information may be minimal—or diminishing.
Location: 39428

A recent study in Nature found that the more informed that strong political partisans were about global warming, the less they agreed with one another.44
Location: 40403

We need to stop, and admit it: we have a prediction problem. We love to predict things—and we aren’t very good at it.
Location: 42192

We must become more comfortable with probability and uncertainty.
Location: 46621

a certain amount of immersion in a topic will provide disproportionately more insight than an executive summary.
Location: 47283

We abhor uncertainty, even when it is an irreducible part of the problem we are trying to solve.
Location: 54552

even if the amount of knowledge in the world is increasing, the gap between what we know and what we think we know may be widening.
Location: 124157

ACCURACY VERSUS PRECISION
Location: 124768

“When the facts change, I change my mind,” the economist John Maynard Keynes famously said. “What do you do, sir?”
Location: 175316

Some people don’t like this type of course-correcting analysis and mistake it for a sign of weakness.
Location: 175503

Instead of physics or biology, however, electoral forecasting resembles something like poker: we can observe our opponent’s behavior and pick up a few clues, but we can’t see his cards. Making the most of that limited information requires a willingness to update one’s forecast as newer and better information becomes available. It is the alternative—failing to change our forecast because we risk embarrassment by doing so—that reveals a lack of courage.
Location: 176385

“Foxes often manage to do inside their heads what you’d do with a whole group of hedgehogs,”
Location: 178600

In the most competitive industries, like sports, the best forecasters must constantly innovate. It’s easy to adopt a goal of “exploit market inefficiencies.” But that doesn’t really give you a plan for how to find them and then determine whether they represent fresh dawns or false leads. It’s hard to have an idea that nobody else has thought of.
Location: 283167

New ideas are sometimes found in the most granular details of a problem where few others bother to look.
Location: 283936

Laplace’s Demon: We may regard the present state of the universe as the effect of its past and the cause of its future. An intellect which at a certain moment would know all forces that set nature in motion, and all positions of all items of which nature is composed, if this intellect were also vast enough to submit these data to analysis, it would embrace in a single formula the movements of the greatest bodies of the universe and those of the tiniest atom; for such an intellect nothing would be uncertain and the future just like the past
Location: 298774

After spending weeks double-checking their hardware and trying to debug their program, Lorenz and his team eventually discovered that their data wasn’t exactly the same: one of their technicians had truncated it in the third decimal place.
Location: 314099

After a little more than a week, Loft told me, chaos theory completely takes over, and the dynamic memory of the atmopshere erases itself.
Location: 346217

it does not imply that these will be spaced out evenly (as in 1900, 1935, 1970). It’s safer to assume there is a 1 in 35 chance of an earthquake occurring every year, and that this rate does not change much over time regardless of how long it has been since the last one.
Location: 412823

You’ve given me an overly specific solution to a general problem. This is overfitting, and it leads to worse predictions.
Location: 424233

These processes may not literally be random, but they are so irreducibly complex (right down to the last grain of sand) that it just won’t be possible to predict them beyond a certain level.
Location: 441745

If I asked you to forecast the total that will be produced when you roll a pair of six-sided dice, the correct answer is not any single number but an enumeration of possible outcomes and their respective probabilities,
Location: 458380

Understanding an organism as complex as the economy is very hard.”
Location: 468168

A once-famous “leading indicator” of economic performance, for instance, was the winner of the Super Bowl. From Super Bowl I in 1967 through Super Bowl XXXI in 1997, the stock market27 gained an average of 14 percent for the rest of the year when a team from the original National Football League (NFL) won the game.28 But it fell by almost 10 percent when a team from the original American Football League (AFL) won instead.
Location: 470005

With so many economic variables to pick from, you’re sure to find something that fits the noise in the past data well.
Location: 473532

At its logical extreme, this is a bit like the observer effect (often mistaken for a related concept, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle): once we begin to measure something, its behavior starts to change.
Location: 479410

In contrast, if you just look at the economy as a series of variables and equations without any underlying structure, you are almost certain to mistake noise for a signal
Location: 497779

“Just as you do not need to know exactly how a car engine works in order to drive safely,” it advised its clients in a 2004 book, “You do not need to understand all the intricacies of the economy to accurately read those gauges.”55 This kind of statement is becoming more common in the age of Big Data.
Location: 499745

“I do think that people have the tendency, which needs to be actively fought,” Hatzius told me, “to see the information flow the way you want to see it.”
Location: 504521

The less reputation you have, the less you have to lose by taking a big risk when you make a prediction.
Location: 507102

He’s got his spreadsheet and he’s got his statistical tests and he’s going to weigh the various options. But in fact real management is mostly about managing coalitions, maintaining support for a project so it doesn’t evaporate. If they put together a coalition to do a project, and then at the last minute the forecasts fluctuate, you can’t dump the project at the last minute, right?
Location: 512943

“All models are wrong, but some models are useful.”
Location: 588883

“The best model of a cat is a cat.”
Location: 589149

science may have stumbled later when a different statistical paradigm, which deemphasized the role of prediction and tried to recast uncertainty as resulting from the errors of our measurements rather than the imperfections in our judgments, came to dominate in the twentieth century.
Location: 624116

But the number of meaningful relationships in the data—those that speak to causality rather than correlation and testify to how the world really works—is orders of magnitude smaller. Nor is it likely to be increasing at nearly so fast a rate as the information itself; there isn’t any more truth in the world than there was before the Internet or the printing press. Most of the data is just noise, as most of the universe is filled with empty space.
Location: 639370

Our knowledge of both systems is subject to considerable imperfections. In weather, much of the problem is that our knowledge of the initial conditions is incomplete.
Location: 679924

Chess speaks to the constraints on our information-processing capabilities—and it might tell us something about the best strategies for making decisions despite them. The need for prediction arises not necessarily because the world itself is uncertain, but because understanding it fully is beyond our capacity.9
Location: 680653

Both computer programs and human chess masters therefore rely on making simplifications to forecast the outcome of the game. We can think of these simplifications as “models,” but heuristics is the preferred term in the study of computer programming and human decision making. It comes from the same Greek root word from which we derive eureka.10 A heuristic approach to problem solving consists of employing rules of thumb when a deterministic solution to a problem is beyond our practical capacities.
Location: 681102

“There are more possible chess games than the number of atoms in the universe.”
Location: 686055

But chess computers had long been rather poor at the opening phase of the game. Although the number of possibilities was the most limitless, the objectives were also the least clear.
Location: 686864

Computers struggle with abstract and open-ended problems, whereas humans understand heuristics like “control the center of the board” and “keep your pawns organized”
Location: 687833

they are more forecasting how the move might favorably dispose their position than trying to enumerate every possibility.
Location: 694398

Chess players learn through memory and experience where to concentrate their thinking. Sometimes this involves probing many branches of the tree but just a couple of moves down the line; at other times, they focus on just one branch but carry out the calculation to a much greater depth. This type of trade-off between breadth and depth is common anytime that we face a complicated problem.
Location: 696116

Elite chess players tend to be good at metacognition—thinking about the way they think—and correcting themselves if they don’t seem to be striking the right balance.
Location: 696766

Kasparov does not yet know exactly how Deep Blue’s king will be mated, but he knows that faced with such pressure the odds are heavily in his favor.
Location: 701371

In searching through all possible moves, the program identified the situations where the heuristic should be discarded.
Location: 730377

But it also had another advantage: it did not let its hang-ups about the right way to play chess get in the way of identifying the right move in those particular circumstances.
Location: 730721

The blind spots in our thinking are usually of our own making and they can grow worse as we age.
Location: 731204

it is not really “artificial” intelligence if a human designed the artifice.
Location: 745653

We should not proceed as though we don’t know anything about the opponent’s hand, but in general our predictive errors come in thinking that there is more certainty in the world than there really is.
Location: 781011

It is often possible to make a profit by being pretty good at prediction in fields where the competition succumbs to poor incentives, bad habits, or blind adherence to tradition—or because you have better data or technology than they do. It is much harder to be very good in fields where everyone else is getting the basics right—and you may be fooling yourself if you think you have much of an edge.
Location: 798148

As an empirical matter, however, success is determined by some combination of hard work, natural talent, and a person’s opportunities and environment—in other words, some combination of noise and signal.
Location: 828434

The irony is that by being less focused on your results, you may achieve better ones.
Location: 832925

One disturbing example is that members of Congress, who often gain access to inside information about a company while they are lobbied and who also have some ability to influence the fate of companies through legislation, return a profit on their investments that beats market averages by 5 to 10 percent per year,33 a remarkable rate that would make even Bernie Madoff blush.
Location: 865472

Perhaps the central finding of behavioral economics is that most of us are overconfident when we make predictions.
Location: 906121

Most of us will have to fight these instincts. “Investors need to learn how to do exactly the reverse of what their fight-or-flight mechanism is telling them to do,”
Location: 922357

“You look at them, and one of the arrows is going to look longer than the other. But you can train yourself to recognize that this is a pattern that causes an illusion, and in that situation, I can’t trust my impressions; I’ve got to use a ruler.”
Location: 925688

Earthquakes are very well described by a few simple laws (we have a very good idea of the long-run frequency of a magnitude 6.5 earthquake in Los Angeles). And yet they are essentially unpredictable from day to day. Another characteristic of these systems is that they periodically undergo violent and highly nonlinear* phase changes from orderly to chaotic and back again. For Sornette and others who take highly mathematical views of the market, the presence of periodic bubbles seems more or less inevitable, an intrinsic property of the system. I am partial toward this perspective. My view on trading markets (and toward free-market capitalism more generally) is the same as Winston Churchill’s attitude toward democracy.100 I think it’s the worst economic system ever invented—except for all the other ones. Markets do a good job most of the time, but I don’t think we’ll ever be rid of bubbles.
Location: 930519

The improvements in weather forecasts are a result of two features of their discipline. First meteorologists get a lot of feedback—weather predictions play out daily, a reality check that helps keep them well-calibrated. This advantage is not available to climate forecasters and is one of the best reasons to be skeptical about their predictions, since they are made at scales that stretch out to as many as eighty or one hundred years in advance. Meteorologists also benefit, however, from a strong understanding of the physics of the weather system, which is governed by relatively simple and easily observable laws. Climate forecasters potentially have the same advantage. We can observe clouds and we have a pretty good idea of how they behave; the challenge is more in translating that into mathematical terms.
Location: 976733

There is an alternative, however, when you have some knowledge of the structure behind the system. This second type of model essentially creates a simulation of the physical mechanics of some portion of the universe. It takes much more work to build than a purely statistical method and requires a more solid understanding of the root causes of the phenomenon. But it is potentially more accurate. Models like these are now used to forecast hurricane tracks and they have been highly successful. As I reported in chapter 4, there has been roughly a threefold increase in the accuracy of hurricane track projections since the 1980s, and the location near New Orleans where Hurricane Katrina made landfall had been pinpointed well more than forty-eight hours in advance48 (though not everyone chose to listen to the forecast). Statistically driven systems are now used as little more than the baseline to measure these more accurate forecasts against.
Location: 980166

He is asking some good questions about model complexity, and the fact that the simple models do pretty well in predicting the climate is one piece of evidence in favor of his position that simpler models are preferable.
Location: 1017095

This book advises you to be wary of forecasters who say that the science is not very important to their jobs, or scientists who say that forecasting is not very important to their jobs! These activities are essentially and intimately related. A forecaster who says he doesn’t care about the science is like the cook who says he doesn’t care about food. What distinguishes science, and what makes a forecast scientific, is that it is concerned with the objective world. What makes forecasts fail is when our concern only extends as far as the method, maxim, or model.
Location: 1019093

one inconvenient truth is that global temperatures did not increase at all in the decade between 2001 and 2011 (figure 12-10). In fact they declined, although imperceptibly.
Location: 1020385

The statistical forecasting methods that I outlined earlier can be used to resolve the dispute—and they suggest that neither Armstrong nor Schmidt has it quite right. If you measure the temperature trend one decade at a time, it registers a warming trend about 75 percent of the time since 1900, but a cooling trend the other 25 percent of the time. As the growth rate of atmospheric CO2 increases, creating a stronger greenhouse signal, periods of flat or cooling temperatures should become less frequent. Nevertheless, they are not impossible, nor are the odds anything like 100-to-1 against them. Instead, if you assume that CO2 levels will increase at the current pace of about 2 ppm per year, the chance that there would be no net warming over the course of a given decade would be about 15 percent102 according to this method.
Location: 1024152

It’s important to emphasize that I’ve done nothing to this data other than make it easier to visualize—it’s still the same underlying information. But what had once seemed chaotic and random is now revealed to be rather orderly. When plotted on a double-logarithmic scale, the relationship between the frequency and the severity of terror attacks appears to be, more or less,47 a straight line. This is, in fact, a fundamental characteristic of power-law relationships: when you plot them on a double-logarithmic scale, the pattern that emerges is as straight as an arrow.
Location: 1083667

When it comes to terrorism, we need to think big, about the probability for very large magnitude events and how we might reduce it, even at the margin.
Location: 1106167

Companies that really “get” Big Data, like Google, aren’t spending a lot of time in model land.* They’re running thousands of experiments every year and testing their ideas on real customers.
Location: 1137307

the serenity to accept the things we cannot predict, the courage to predict the things we can, and the
Location: 1139808

wisdom to know the difference.14
Location: 1139911

These perceptions about predictability are more affected by the fashions of the sciences16
Location: 1140932

The 1950s, when the world was still shaken by the war and was seen as fairly unpredictable, was a time of more economic17 and scientific18 productivity than the 1970s, the decade when we thought we could predict everything, but couldn’t.
Location: 1141448

http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Norbert_Wiener.
Location: 1340671

Steve Jobs
108 highlights
---------------------------------
He even cared about the look of the parts you couldn’t see.”
Location: 58695

And they really almost got me. They came close to really beating any curiosity out of me.”
Location: 74456

After watching him for a couple of weeks, she figured that the best way to handle him was to bribe him. “After school one day, she gave me this workbook with math problems in it, and she said, ‘I want you to take it home and do this.’ And I thought, ‘Are you nuts?’ And then she pulled out one of these giant lollipops that seemed as big as the world. And she said, ‘When you’re done with it, if you get it mostly right, I will give you this and five dollars.’ And I handed it back within two days.” After a few months, he no longer required the bribes. “I just wanted to learn and to please her.”
Location: 76836

Jobs insisted there be only two, for a printer and a modem. “Usually I’m really easy to get along with, but this time I told him, ‘If that’s what you want, go get yourself another computer,’” Wozniak recalled. “I knew that people like me would eventually come up with things to add to any computer.”
Location: 230077

“I looked past the fact that both guys needed a haircut and was amazed by what I saw on that workbench. You can always get a haircut.”
Location: 233615

The second was focus: “In order to do a good job of those things that we decide to do, we must eliminate all of the unimportant opportunities.”
Location: 239626

There was also the issue of his hygiene. He was still convinced, against all evidence, that his vegan diets meant that he didn’t need to use a deodorant or take regular showers. “We would have to literally put him out the door and tell him to go take a shower,” said Markkula. “At meetings we had to look at his dirty feet.” Sometimes, to relieve stress, he would soak his feet in the toilet, a practice that was not as soothing for his colleagues.
Location: 248773

“I had to create it fast because there was a magazine ad for the Apple II showing a hubby at the kitchen table looking at an Apple screen filled with graphs of stock prices, and his wife is beaming at him—but there wasn’t such a program, so I had to create one.”
Location: 277490

There falls a shadow, as T. S. Eliot noted, between the conception and the creation.
Location: 288396

he wanted a simple single-button model that cost $15, “and I want to be able to use it on Formica and my blue jeans.” Hovey complied.
Location: 289085

In his excitement, Jobs began to take over the daily management of the Lisa project, which was being run by John Couch, the former HP engineer. Ignoring Couch, he dealt directly with Atkinson and Tesler to insert his own ideas, especially on Lisa’s graphical interface design. “He would call me at all hours, 2 a.m. or 5 a.m.,” said Tesler. “I loved it. But it upset my bosses at the Lisa division.” Jobs was told to stop making out-of-channel calls. He held himself back for a while, but not for long.
Location: 291557

“He’s anti-loyal. He has to abandon the people he is close to.”
Location: 299157

he could be flinty when bargaining with suppliers, but he didn’t allow a craving for profits to take precedence over his passion for building great products.
Location: 304213

The one through the Panama Canal “was the big one for my dad,” according to Jobs, because it reminded him of when his Coast Guard ship went through on its way to San Francisco to be decommissioned.
Location: 307273

“When Steve Jobs speaks, it is with the gee-whiz enthusiasm of someone who sees the future and is making sure it works,” the magazine reported.
Location: 308031

Raskin fancied himself a philosopher, and he wrote his thoughts in an ever-expanding notebook that he called “The Book of Macintosh.”
Location: 312945

Smith would later succumb to schizophrenia, but in the early 1980s he was able to channel his manic intensity into weeklong binges of engineering brilliance.
Location: 314669

When Steve turned the Mac into a compact version of the Lisa, it made it into a computing platform instead of a consumer electronic device.”
Location: 323860

“If you tell him a new idea, he’ll usually tell you that he thinks it’s stupid. But then, if he actually likes it, exactly one week later, he’ll come back to you and propose your idea to you, as if he thought of it.”
Location: 339047

Even though the Macintosh would turn out to be great, it was way behind schedule and way over budget because of Jobs’s impetuous interventions.
Location: 349439

He proposed an alternative, born of the Bauhaus, that was more true to the function and nature of the products.
Location: 355126

“From the first Mac to the latest iPhone, Jobs’s systems have always been sealed shut to prevent consumers from meddling and modifying them,”
Location: 383836

“I’m good at when people are emotional, I’m kind of less emotional.”
Location: 485679

Jobs spotted a building in nearby Menlo Park and declared that they should open a skunkworks facility to work on these ideas. It could be called AppleLabs and Jobs could run it, going back to the joy of having a small team and developing a great new product.
Location: 531937

“His product comes with an interesting feature called incompatibility,”
Location: 617958

Because neither the hardware nor the operating system was actually ready, Jobs was urged to do a simulation. But he refused. Knowing it would be like walking a tightrope without a net, he decided to do the demonstration live.
Location: 625390

his diet obsessions reflected a life philosophy, one in which asceticism and minimalism could heighten subsequent sensations. “He believed that great harvests came from arid sources, pleasure from restraint,” she noted. “He knew the equations that most people didn’t know: Things led to their opposites.”
Location: 690212

It was conducted by Jobs’s longtime Sōtō Zen teacher, Kobun Chino, who shook a stick, struck a gong, lit incense, and chanted in a mumbling manner that most guests found incomprehensible. “I thought he was drunk,” said Tevanian.
Location: 724494

“You see, Mona,” Jobs said to his sister, “Laurene is descended from Joe Namath and we’re descended from John Muir.”
Location: 725147

Jobs wanted Apple “to become a wonderful consumer products company,” Sculley wrote. “This was a lunatic plan. . . . Apple would never be a consumer products company. . . . We couldn’t bend reality to all our dreams of changing the world. . . . High tech could not be designed and sold as a consumer product.”
Location: 778281

Guy Kawasaki had published a parody press release joking that Apple was buying NeXT and making Jobs its CEO. In the spoof Mike Markkula asked Jobs, “Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling UNIX with a sugarcoating, or change the world?”
Location: 785793

“Gassée is one of the few people in my life I would say is truly horrible,” Jobs later insisted, unfairly. “He knifed me in the back in 1985.”
Location: 788374

In returning to Apple, Jobs would show that even people over forty could be great innovators.
Location: 804429

Every once in a while, I find myself in the presence of purity—purity of spirit and love—and I always cry. It always just reaches in and grabs me. That was one of those moments. There was a purity about that I will never forget. I cried in my office as he was showing me the idea, and I still cry when I think about it.
Location: 863622

Very few other companies or corporate leaders—perhaps none—could have gotten away with the brilliant audacity of associating their brand with Gandhi, Einstein, Picasso, and the Dalai Lama. Jobs was able to encourage people to define themselves as anticorporate, creative, innovative rebels simply by the computer they used. “Steve created the only lifestyle brand in the tech industry,” Larry Ellison said.
Location: 873268

He loved to control all aspects of his life, and the only way to do that with computers was to take responsibility for the user experience from end to end.
Location: 883357

One of Jobs’s great strengths was knowing how to focus. “Deciding what not to do is as important as deciding what to do,” he said. “That’s true for companies, and it’s true for products.”
Location: 884892

Jobs met with the dozens of product teams at Apple, asked them to explain what they were doing, and forced them to justify going ahead with their products or projects.
Location: 885534

“Steve would summon the teams into the boardroom, which seats twenty, and they would come with thirty people and try to show PowerPoints, which Steve didn’t want to see,” Schiller recalled. One of the first things Jobs did during the product review process was ban PowerPoints. “I hate the way people use slide presentations instead of thinking,” Jobs later recalled. “People would confront a problem by creating a presentation. I wanted them to engage, to hash things out at the table, rather than show a bunch of slides. People who know what they’re talking about don’t need PowerPoint.”
Location: 885882

“Here’s what we need,” he continued. Atop the two columns he wrote “Consumer” and “Pro”; he labeled the two rows “Desktop” and “Portable.” Their job, he said, was to make four great products, one for each quadrant. “The room was in dumb silence,” Schiller recalled.
Location: 888342

Design is the fundamental soul of a man-made creation that ends up expressing itself in successive outer layers.”
Location: 902055

“We wanted to get rid of anything other than what was absolutely essential,” he said. “To do so required total collaboration between the designers, the product developers, the engineers, and the manufacturing team. We kept going back to the beginning, again and again. Do we need that part? Can we get it to perform the function of the other four parts?”
Location: 902406

There are no formal design reviews, so there are no huge decision points. Instead, we can make the decisions fluid. Since we iterate every day and never have dumb-ass presentations, we don’t run into major disagreements.
Location: 909229

“Skate where the puck’s going, not where it’s been.”
Location: 915179

Other companies would probably have demanded presentations and studies to show whether the translucent case would increase sales enough to justify the extra cost. Jobs asked for no such analysis.
Location: 917987

It gives you permission to touch. It gives a sense of its deference to you.
Location: 918829

“When we took it to the engineers,” Jobs said, “they came up with thirty-eight reasons they couldn’t do it. And I said, ‘No, no, we’re doing this.’ And they said, ‘Well, why?’ And I said, ‘Because I’m the CEO, and I think it can be done.’ And so they kind of grudgingly did it.”
Location: 919559

“I’m only going to go ahead with the launch if you promise we’re going to go to slot mode as soon as possible,” Jobs said tearfully.
Location: 923338

“In most places that decision would have taken months,” Ive recalled. “Steve did it in a half hour.”
Location: 934008

He let go of his control-freak desire to manufacture products in his own factories and instead outsourced the making of everything from the circuit boards to the finished computers. And he enforced on Apple’s suppliers a rigorous discipline. When he took over, Apple had more than two months’ worth of inventory sitting in warehouses, more than any other tech company. Like eggs and milk, computers have a short shelf life, so this amounted to at least a $500 million hit to profits. By early 1998 he had halved that to a month.
Location: 937638

Never married, he threw himself into his work. He was up most days at 4:30 sending emails, then spent an hour at the gym, and was at his desk shortly after 6.
Location: 941970

He scheduled Sunday evening conference calls to prepare for each week ahead.
Location: 942129

Cook reduced the number of Apple’s key suppliers from a hundred to twenty-four, forced them to cut better deals to keep the business, convinced many to locate next to Apple’s plants, and closed ten of the company’s nineteen warehouses.
Location: 943337

Jobs had cut inventory from two months’ worth of product down to one by early 1998. By September of that year, Cook had gotten it down to six days. By the following September, it was down to an amazing two days’ worth.
Location: 943667

Many companies pride themselves on having few meetings. Jobs had many: an executive staff session every Monday, a marketing strategy session all Wednesday afternoon, and endless product review sessions. Still allergic to PowerPoints and formal presentations, he insisted that the people around the table hash out issues from various vantages and the perspectives of different departments.
Location: 946254

Because he believed that Apple’s great advantage was its integration of the whole widget—from design to hardware to software to content—he wanted all departments at the company to work together in parallel. The phrases he used were “deep collaboration” and “concurrent engineering.” Instead of a development process in which a product would be passed sequentially from engineering to design to manufacturing to marketing and distribution, these various departments collaborated simultaneously. “Our method was to develop integrated products, and that meant our process had to be integrated and collaborative,” Jobs said.
Location: 946699

“You never win an argument with him at the time, but sometimes you eventually win,”
Location: 950831

They were organizing the store around each of Apple’s main product lines, with areas for the PowerMac, iMac, iBook, and PowerBook. But Jobs had begun developing a new concept: the computer as a hub for all your digital activity. In other words, your computer might handle video and pictures from your cameras, and perhaps someday your music player and songs, or your books and magazines. Johnson’s predawn brainstorm was that the stores should organize displays not just around the company’s four lines of computers, but also around things people might want to do.
Location: 971142

everything that he had done correctly had required a moment when he hit the rewind button. In each case he had to rework something that he discovered was not perfect.
Location: 973615

“What are the ten things we should be doing next?” People would fight to get their suggestions on the list. Jobs would write them down, and then cross off the ones he decreed dumb. After much jockeying, the group would come up with a list of ten. Then Jobs would slash the bottom seven and announce, “We can only do three.”
Location: 984946

“My primary insight when we were screwed by Adobe in 1999 was that we shouldn’t get into any business where we didn’t control both the hardware and the software, otherwise we’d get our head handed to us.”
Location: 989364

Microsoft wrote software, Dell and Compaq made hardware, Sony produced a lot of digital devices, Adobe developed a lot of applications. But only Apple did all of these things. “We’re the only company that owns the whole widget—the hardware, the software and the operating system,” he explained to Time. “We can take full responsibility for the user experience. We can do things that the other guys can’t do.”
Location: 991716

“Here’s the new application,” he said. “It’s got one window. You drag your video into the window. Then you click the button that says ‘Burn.’ That’s it. That’s what we’re going to make.”
Location: 993065

Tony Fadell was a brash entrepreneurial programmer with a cyberpunk look and an engaging smile who had started three companies while still at the University of Michigan. He had gone to work at the handheld device maker General Magic (where he met Apple refugees Andy Hertzfeld and Bill Atkinson), and then spent some awkward time at Philips Electronics, where he bucked the staid culture with his short bleached hair and rebellious style.
Location: 1001616

Fadell began his show-and-tell by taking the various parts they were using out of a box and spreading them on the table. There were the 1.8-inch drive, LCD screen, boards, and batteries, all labeled with their cost and weight.
Location: 1008337

“I was used to being at Philips, where decisions like this would take meeting after meeting, with a lot of PowerPoint presentations and going back for more study.”
Location: 1009604

and he would go, ‘Did you think of this?’” said Fadell. “And then we’d all go, ‘Holy shit.’
Location: 1011155

I had this crazy idea that we could sell just as many Macs by advertising the iPod. In addition, the iPod would position Apple as evoking innovation and youth. So I moved $75 million of advertising money to the iPod, even though the category didn’t justify one hundredth of that.
Location: 1019170

At the heart of the problem was a chasm between the people who loved technology and those who loved artistry. Jobs loved both, as he had demonstrated at Pixar and Apple, and he was thus positioned to bridge the gap.
Location: 1032106

On the other hand, music companies are completely clueless about technology. They think they can just go out and hire a few tech folks. But that would be like Apple trying to hire people to produce music. We’d get second-rate A&R people, just like the music companies ended up with second-rate tech people.
Location: 1032893

“Unlike any other CEO, he was totally engaged with the product.”
Location: 1035430

“Of course we have to rely on Steve Jobs to do this,” he told his own tech vice president, “because we don’t have anyone at Universal who knows anything about technology.”
Location: 1037274

“Steve would fire people if the divisions didn’t work together, but Sony’s divisions were at war with one another.”
Location: 1039278

Jobs was sometimes willing to surrender, despite his reputation, but he never won any awards for gracious concession speeches. “Screw it,” he said at one meeting where they showed him the analysis. “I’m sick of listening to you assholes. Go do whatever the hell you want.”
Location: 1053666

The older I get, the more I see how much motivations matter. The Zune was crappy because the people at Microsoft don’t really love music or art the way we do.
Location: 1057822

Why did it fail? Partly because it was a company, like AOL Time Warner, that was organized into divisions (that word itself was ominous) with their own bottom lines; the goal of achieving synergy in such companies by prodding the divisions to work together was usually elusive.
Location: 1059623

“We don’t have ‘divisions’ with their own P&L,” said Tim Cook. “We run one P&L for the company.”
Location: 1060163

In January 2007 iPod sales were half of Apple’s revenues.
Location: 1066188

By 2011 an important new business had emerged: being the service that people trusted with their online identity and payment information.
Location: 1066914

Gregorian chant, “Spiritus Domini,”
Location: 1073860

We would start off with a version and then begin refining and refining, doing detailed models of the design, or the buttons, or how a function operates. It’s a lot of work, but in the end it just gets better, and soon it’s like, “Wow, how did they do that?!? Where are the screws?”
Location: 1089214

“If you’d said, ‘Okay, we’re going to change our microprocessor chip, and we’re not going to lose a beat,’ that sounds impossible,” he told me years later, when I asked him about Jobs’s accomplishments. “They basically did that.”
Location: 1160737

Jon Rubinstein and Avie Tevanian, the hardware and software lieutenants who had been recruited during the 1997 restoration, decided to leave.
Location: 1187768

Scott Forstall running iPhone software,
Location: 1190995

Eddy Cue handling Internet services,
Location: 1191107

The focus was always on the future: What should each product do next? What new things should be developed? Jobs used the meeting to enforce a sense of shared mission at Apple. This served to centralize control, which made the company seem as tightly integrated as a good Apple product, and prevented the struggles between divisions that plagued decentralized companies.
Location: 1192079

his job had been to prune the apple trees so that they would stay strong, and that became a metaphor for his pruning at Apple. Instead of encouraging each group to let product lines proliferate based on marketing considerations, or permitting a thousand ideas to bloom, Jobs insisted that Apple focus on just two or three priorities at a time.
Location: 1192585

compile a series of case studies analyzing important decisions the company had made, including the switch to the Intel microprocessor and the decision to open the Apple Stores. Top executives spent time teaching the cases to new employees, so that the Apple style of decision making would be embedded in the culture.
Location: 1193420

“Even though he was now running a large company, he kept making bold moves that I don’t think anybody else would have done.”
Location: 1194406

I think honestly, when he’s very frustrated, and his way to achieve catharsis is to hurt somebody.
Location: 1197617

They decided to proceed on two paths: P1 was the code name for the phone being developed using an iPod trackwheel, and P2 was the new alternative using a multi-touch screen.
Location: 1212465

FingerWorks had developed some tablets with multi-touch sensing capabilities and taken out patents on ways to translate various finger gestures, such as pinches and swipes, into useful functions.
Location: 1212890

“Think of all the innovations we’d be able to adapt if we did the keyboard onscreen with software. Let’s bet on it, and then we’ll find a way to make it work.”
Location: 1214485

“Yes, you can do it,” he said. “Get your mind around it. You can do it.”
Location: 1220732

Jobs pressed “pause” as they neared completion and decided to make major revisions. That happened with the design of the iPhone as well.
Location: 1221733

“Other companies may have shipped,” said Fadell, “but we pressed the reset button and started over.”
Location: 1223510

“I’ve been predicting a tablet with a stylus for many years,” he told me. “I will eventually turn out to be right or be dead.”
Location: 1277392

“Dammit,” he shouted, “they look like a Visa commercial, typical ad agency stuff.”
Location: 1290998

high-end publishing house Callaway, which had produced books ranging from Madonna’s Sex to Miss Spider’s Tea Party, decided to “burn the boats” and give up print altogether to focus on publishing books as interactive apps.
Location: 1296466

“He told us we were going to find it hard to get things right, because you’re in New York, and anyone who’s any good at tech works in Silicon Valley.”
Location: 1311474

His idea was to hire great textbook writers to create digital versions, and make them a feature of the iPad. In addition, he held meetings with the major publishers, such as Pearson Education, about partnering with Apple.
Location: 1316414

The Autobiography of a Yogi,
Location: 1359597

It’s important that we make this transformation, because of what Clayton Christensen calls “the innovator’s dilemma,” where people who invent something are usually the last ones to see past it,
Location: 1371018

Until the teachers’ unions were broken, there was almost no hope for education reform. Teachers should be treated as professionals, he said, not as industrial assembly-line workers. Principals should be able to hire and fire them based on how good they were.
Location: 1403501

All books, learning materials, and assessments should be digital and interactive, tailored to each student and providing feedback in real time.
Location: 1403992

What are the five products you want to focus on? Get rid of the rest, because they’re dragging you down.
Location: 1423634

“Hewlett and Packard built a great company, and they thought they had left it in good hands,” he said. “But now it’s being dismembered and destroyed. It’s tragic. I hope I’ve left a stronger legacy so that will never happen at Apple.”
Location: 1440054

We try to use the talents we do have to express our deep feelings, to show our appreciation of all the contributions that came before us, and to add something to that flow.
Location: 1467915

A Storm of Swords: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Three
1 highlights
---------------------------------
Mance had spent years assembling this vast plodding host, talking to this clan mother and that magnar, winning one village with sweet words and another with a song and a third with the edge of his sword, making peace between Harma Dogshead and the Lord o’ Bones, between the Hornfoots and the Nightrunners, between the walrus men of the Frozen Shore and the cannibal clans of the great ice rivers, hammering a hundred different daggers into one great spear, aimed at the heart of the Seven Kingdoms. He had no crown nor scepter, no robes of silk and velvet, but it was plain to Jon that Mance Rayder was a king in more than name.
Location: 600661

Structures: Or Why Things Don't Fall Down
14 highlights
---------------------------------
the development of the vertebrate foetus from conception onwards, like that of natural structures in general, is in certain respects from soft to hard, and the hardening process goes on after the baby has emerged.
Location: 19885

When we play tennis or walk downstairs we are actually solving whole pages of differential equations, quickly, easily and without thinking about it, using the analogue computer which we keep in our minds. What we find difficult about mathematics is the formal, symbolic presentation of the subject by pedagogues with a taste for dogma, sadism and incomprehensible squiggles.
Location: 44980

a force cannot just get lost. Always and whatever happens every force must be balanced and reacted by another equal and opposite force at every point throughout a structure.
Location: 51319

Nature seems to be a pragmatic rather than a mathematical designer; and, after all, bad designs can always be eaten by good ones.
Location: 114444

They felt that theoreticians were too often blinded by the elegance of their methods to the neglect of their assumptions, so that they produced the right answer to the wrong sum.
Location: 118394

Shrewd North-Country consulting engineers realized, as all successful engineers must, that when we analyse a situation mathematically, we are really making for ourselves an artificial working model of the thing we want to examine. We hope that this algebraical analogue or model will perform in a way which resembles the real thing sufficiently closely to widen our understanding and to enable us to make useful predictions. With fashionable subjects like physics or astronomy the correspondence between model and reality is so exact that some people tend to regard Nature as a sort of Divine Mathematician. However attractive this doctrine may be to earthly mathematicians, there are some phenomena where it is wise to use mathematical analogies with great caution. The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea and the way of a man with a maid are difficult to predict analytically. One does sometimes wonder how mathematicians ever manage to get married. After King Solomon had built his temple, he would probably have added that the way of a structure with a load has a good deal in common at least with ships and eagles. The trouble with things like these is that many of the real situations which are apt to arise are so complicated that they cannot be fully represented by one mathematical model. With structures there are often several alternative possible modes of failure. Naturally the structure breaks in whichever of these ways turns out to be the weakest – which is too often the one which nobody had happened to think of, let alone do sums about. A deep, intuitive appreciation of the inherent cussedness of materials and structures is one of the most valuable accomplishments an engineer can have. No purely intellectual quality is really a substitute for this. Bridges designed upon the best ‘modern’ theories by Polytechniciens like Navier sometimes fell down. As far as I know, none of the hundreds of bridges and other engineering works which Telford built in the course of his long professional life ever gave serious trouble. Thus, during the period when French structural theory was outstanding, a great proportion of the railways and bridges on the Continent were being built by gritty and taciturn English and Scottish engineers who had little respect for the calculus.
Location: 118849

‘factor of safety’ is sometimes referred to as the ‘factor of ignorance’.
Location: 123223

What Inglis said about elasticians was really very much what Lord Salisbury is supposed to have said about politicians, namely that it is a great mistake to use only small-scale maps.
Location: 125971

Energy can exist in a great variety of different forms – as potential energy, as heat energy, as chemical energy, as electrical energy and so on. In our material world, every single happening or event of whatever kind involves a conversion of energy from one into another of its many forms. In a physical sense that is what ‘happenings’ or ‘events’ are about.
Location: 147645

Mechanical engineers have tended to use foot-pounds, physicists are addicted to ergs and electron-volts, chemists and dietitians like to use calories, but our gas bills come in therms and our electricity bills in kilowatt-hours.
Location: 148857

Long ago some genius invented the spring, which is simply an energy reservoir which enables changes of potential energy to be stored temporarily as strain energy so as to smooth the ride and prevent the vehicle and its occupants from being racketed to bits.
Location: 152270

It will be seen that the strain energy storage per unit weight is about twenty times higher for tendon than it is for modern spring steels.
Location: 154723

was legally compulsory to import consignments of Spanish bow-staves with each shipment of Spanish wine.
Location: 161197

The steady force or pull required to break a long string will indeed be the same as that needed to break a short one, but the long string will stretch further before it breaks and it will therefore require more energy to break it, even though the force which is applied and the stress which is in the material remain the same.
Location: 182996

The Tao te Ching of Lao Tzu
5 highlights
---------------------------------
Something mysterious and perfect existed before even heaven and earth were born. Silent, immeasurable, standing alone and unchanging, moving without end or exhaustion, it is the mother of the known and unknown universe.   I don't know its name, so I call it by an alias: Tao. Forced to describe it, I only say, "It is great."
Location: 58011

Ordinary people hate nothing more than to be powerless, small, and unworthy. Yet this is how superior people describe themselves.
Location: 83479

he helps all beings become themselves.
Location: 115189

Moving from not knowing to knowing -- this is sickness. You have to become sick of your sickness before you can get rid of it.
Location: 123096

An unyielding army is destroyed. An unbending tree breaks.   The hard must humble itself or be otherwise humbled.
Location: 129011

Theory of Fun for Game Design
10 highlights
---------------------------------
If you have to think about what you’re doing, you’re more liable to screw up. Your reaction times are orders of magnitude slower and odds are good you’ll get in a wreck.
Location: 50473

Noise is any pattern we don’t understand.
Location: 52370

If we perceive something as noise, it’s most likely a failure in ourselves, not a failure in the universe.
Location: 52980

There’s been a lot of hay made over how play is non-goal-oriented and games tend to have goals; over how toys are aimed at pointless play rather than being games; about how make-believe is a form of play and not a game.
Location: 65208

The clauses are too deeply nested. We can puzzle it out with our slow logical conscious brain, but we work against our own natures when we do so.
Location: 67206

This is an important insight for game designers: the more formally constructed your game is, the more limited it will be.
Location: 68586

These are elements that arise from outside the game’s rules and from outside the “magic circle.”
Location: 68917

That’s what games are for in the first place—to package up the unpredictable and the learning experience into a space and time where there is no risk.
Location: 158670

fun is a process and routine is its destination.
Location: 160269

new patterns that emerge spontaneously out of the rules, allowing the player to do things that the designer did not foresee.
Location: 173657

Thinking: The New Science of Decision-Making, Problem-Solving, and Prediction in Life and Markets
11 highlights
---------------------------------
Using the concept of bounded rationality from this perspective, you realize that an organism has neither unlimited resources nor unlimited time.
Location: 105967

To give a simple example, imagine Homo economicus in mate search, trying to find a woman to marry. According to standard theory Homo economicus would have to find out all the possible options and all the possible consequences of marrying each one of them. He would also look at the probabilities of various consequences of marrying each of them—whether the woman would still talk to him after they’re married, whether she’d take care of their children, whatever is important to him—and the utilities of each of these. Homo economicus would have to do tons of research to avoid just coming up with subjective probabilities, and after many years of research he’d probably find out that his final choice had already married another person who didn’t do these computations, and actually just fell in love with her.
Location: 109280

it means that we can learn from mistakes before we make them.
Location: 125491

Individuals and societies don’t have the same fundamental need. Individuals want to be happy, and societies want individuals to consume. Most of us don’t feel personally responsible for stoking our country’s economic engine; we feel personally responsible for increasing our own well-being. These different goals present a real dilemma, and society cunningly solves it by teaching us that consumption will bring us happiness.
Location: 145522

We live in the shadow of a great lie, and by the time we figure out that it is a lie we are closing in on death and have become irrelevant consumers, and a new generation of young and relevant consumers takes our place in the great chain of shopping.
Location: 146837

we presented these babies with two objects: a human face or a mechanical mobile suspended above the crib. So, two very different kinds of objects, one mechanical and one animate and human. And we looked to see whether babies, aged one day old, looked longer at the human face, a social stimulus, or looked longer at the mechanical object. The objects were presented one at a time, and we counterbalanced—that’s to say we varied the order—whether the baby saw the face first or the mechanical object first. What we found, just cutting to the chase, was that if we compared babies in terms of looking longer at a social stimulus or looking longer at a mechanical stimulus, more boys seemed to look longer at the mechanical stimulus, and more girls seemed to look longer at the social stimulus, the face.
Location: 341392

disgust was initially the emotion that protects us from physical contamination, but then it became the emotion that protects us from spiritual or moral contamination;
Location: 464890

It’s as simple as that. We like to think of ourselves as special because we’re so intelligent, but we’re still very similar to other creatures in terms of how we process the world around us.
Location: 470735

Larry Barsalou has done a lot of work to show that the language of the mind is very similar to how the body takes in information. The idea is that when we process something, when we have a sensory experience of some kind, that same type of language or that same modality of information is taken and used in abstract thought processes.
Location: 470990

Embodied metaphors are when, in a way, we take physical concepts from the world that we experience with the body, and use them when we talk about abstract things.
Location: 471361

That means that for better or worse, rational thought may not really happen that often, and it’s not such a central component of human life, or of why we do things.
Location: 475049

Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption
1 highlights
---------------------------------
In 1943 in the Pacific Ocean Areas theater in which Phil’s crew served, for every plane lost in combat, some six planes were lost in accidents. Over time, combat took a greater toll, but combat losses never overtook noncombat losses.
Location: 204910

Unwritten Laws of Engineering: Revised and Updated Edition
13 highlights
---------------------------------
by and large, it is fundamentally true that if you take care of your present job well, the future will take care of itself.
Location: 15148

your ultimate chances are much better if you do a good job on some minor detail than if you do a mediocre job as a project leader.
Location: 15558

initiative, which is expressed in energy to start things and aggressiveness to keep them moving briskly, resourcefulness or ingenuity, i.e., the faculty for finding ways to accomplish the desired result, and persistence (tenacity), which is the disposition to persevere in spite of difficulties, discouragement, or indifference.
Location: 16444

“good starters but poor finishers.”
Location: 17241

it may be worthwhile finishing a job, if it has any merit, just for the sake of finishing it.
Location: 17488

In carrying out a project, do not wait passively for anyone — suppliers, sales people, colleagues, supervisors — to make good on their delivery promises; go after them and keep relentlessly after them.
Location: 17653

Be careful about demanding action from others.
Location: 18853

“If you can’t be on time, be early!"
Location: 20843

A wonderfully effective response, both technically and administratively, is to invite them to have a look with you — i.e., “Let’s go see!”
Location: 22647

Refrain from stating an opinion or promoting an undertaking until you have had a reasonable opportunity to obtain and study the facts.
Location: 23622

Any violation of this law puts your trustworthiness at risk.
Location: 37702

You must make promises based upon your own estimates for the part of the job for which you are responsible, together with estimates obtained from contributing departments for their parts. No one should be allowed to avoid the issue by the old formula, “I can’t give a promise because it depends upon so many uncertain factors.”
Location: 46783

“If a man hasn’t discovered something that he will die for, he isn’t fit to live.”
Location: 116232

Welcome to Your Child's Brain
9 highlights
---------------------------------
Somewhat curiously, a third category is genes that drive physical appearance, such as skin color, hair color and thickness, and eye color. Selection for these genes may be a product of culturally driven sexual preferences as well as environmental drivers such as sun exposure.
Location: 135287

One of our colleagues, who was dedicated to freeing her kids from traditional gender expectations, bought a doll for her son and trucks for her daughter. She gave up her quest after she found the boy using the doll to pound in a nail and the girl pretending that the trucks were talking to each other.
Location: 199921

One of the largest adult sex differences is that males are better at mentally rotating objects through space. (This ability affects the way we think about directions, as well as some practical skills like moving a couch through a doorway.)
Location: 211872

As they build towers of blocks and knock them down, wrestle, play catch, or ride bikes around the neighborhood, boys are learning about the rules of the physical world. As girls play with dolls and dollhouses, they are practicing nurturing and fine motor control skills. Girls also talk with each other during play more than boys do, which may help girls to become more fluent and have larger expressive vocabularies by the time they start school.
Location: 213290

boys make moral decisions based on justice (d' = 0.19), while girls make moral decisions based on relationships (d' = 0.28).
Location: 222506

The incidence of myopia varies tremendously across populations, from 2–5 percent among Solomon Islanders in the 1960s to 90–95 percent among modern Chinese students in Singapore. The rate of myopia has increased considerably over the past few decades in many countries.
Location: 253138

Children who spend more time outdoors are less likely to become myopic.
Location: 254277

Starting between six and nine months of age, babies also find it slightly easier to distinguish faces within their own racial group than within other racial groups, probably because most babies have more visual experience with their own racial group than with others. This process, which is reminiscent of phoneme learning (see chapter 6), probably involves the sculpting of synaptic connections by experience to tune perception to the characteristics of the local environment.
Location: 265083

Young children’s play contributes to the development of their most important basic brain function: the ability to control their own behavior in order to reach a goal.
Location: 314887

